Balance of Plant (BOP) Package for 1X25TPD & 2x325 TPD CO2 Capture Units at NTPC 
Simhadri 
Salient Technical Features 
 
This package shall be used to cater diƯerent types of utilities required for CO2 Capture Units. 
This ‘Balance of Plant’ package includes following sub-packages:  
 
SN Details of Facilities  Remarks 
1 CO2 Hub CO2 Liquefaction and Transfer System (including CO2 
Liquefaction System, Liquid CO2 Storage Tank, Liquid CO2 
Transfer Pump etc. 
2 Cooling Water System Includes Adiabatic Cooling Tower, CW Pumps, CW Piping, CW 
Valves, and associated auxiliaries to cater 40 MWth Load. 
3 Integrated pipe rack and 
cable tussle 
The system is designed to cater to clarified water, DM Water, 
drinking Water, firefighting, air, steam, condensate, and flue gas 
ducts and pipelines supplying CO₂ capture units and different 
equipment or unit. This includes a water supply of of treated 
water and DM water, supported by appropriate storage and 
pumping facilities, shall have provisions for routing electrical 
power cables and control & instrumentation (C&I) cables. 
4 Fire Fighting System Fire water pipelines with necessary tap -offs for hydrants and 
sprinkler systems, Fire Detection and Alarm system, Fire 
Protection system 
5 Steam Condensate Water 
System 
Includes condensate polishing unit to meet site parameters with 
storage tank, pumps, and piping network. 
6 Steam Pipelines and PRDS 
System 
Main steam distribution pipelines along with Pressure Reducing 
and De-superheating Station (PRDS).  
7 Compressed Air System Including Air Compressor, Air Receiver Tank, Instrument Air 
Dryer etc. 
8 Electrical System Gas Insulated Switch Gear,  420kV, substation with MCR 
comprising Transformers, Switchgear, High Tension (HT) and 
Low Tension (LT) Motor Control Centres (MCCs), and other 
electrical auxiliaries. 
9 Control & Instrumentation 
System 
Includes Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC), Uninterruptible 
Power Supply (UPS), and instrumentation required for plant 
control and monitoring. 
10 Civil Works Includes construction of Control Room, Machine Room  with 
proper ventilation and air conditioning, structural steel works, 
RCC works, internal road, drains, and other supporting civil 
infrastructure. All painting and surface finish of structural steel 
and other equipment/pipe/ducts shall meet coastal region 
specifications. 
Comprehensive O&M of ‘Balance of Plant’ package for a period of 2 years from the date of 
commissioning. 