NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT)  
 
FOR 
 
Transportation of 300000MT coal from NLC Talabira Mines of NLC Ltd to NTPC Simhadri 
under RCR mode through any nearby siding 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
Tender Ref. No: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900306040 
 
 
I. NTPC invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-commercial  Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from Eligible 
Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned 
hereinafter. 
 
II.   Brief Scope of Work: 
Transportation of 300000MT coal from NLC Talabira Mines of NLC Ltd to NTPC 
Simhadri under RCR mode through any nearby siding.  
The detailed scope and description of work covered under this package has been 
specified in relevant clause of Detailed Technical Specification. 
NTPC intends to finance subject Pa ckage through Domestic Commercial 
Borrowings/Own sources. 
 
III. Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the 
bidding document, which are available for ex amination at our e Procurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule: 
 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group-1, Raipur 
Document Download 
Commencement Date & Time 
As per details at Online Portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission 
 Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 
 Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately 
Cost of Bidding Documents / Tender 
Fee (INR) 
Rs. 10,620/- (Rupees Ten Thousand 
Six Hundred Twenty Only) 
Bid Security / EMD (INR) Rs. 20,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty 
Lakhs only) 
Benefit to MSME Applicable. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of 
their bids. 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Applicable 
Splitting of Quantity Applicable. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of 
their bids. 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be entertained by the Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queri es/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified above.” 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-Commercial 
Proposal” and “Price Proposal” online (https:// eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within 
the bid submission date and time as mentioned above.  
 Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the 
website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
 
IV. All bids must be accompanied by Tender  Fee (Cost of Bidding Documents), Bid 
Security, Power of Attorney and Integrity Pact.  Condition of the Integrity Pact (if 
applicable) shall be accepted by the bidder through GTE on e-tender portal. 
 
Bid Security (other than through online payment at E-Tendering Portal) shall be 
submitted in a sealed envelope separately in  physical form by the stipulated bid 
submission closing date and time at the address given below. Online payment option 
for Tender Fee and Bid Security is made av ailable at GePNIC portal. Bidders are 
requested to please avail the facility.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE TENDER FEES AND BID 
SECURITY SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE TENDER FEE AND BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH e-BG/ ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (AT E-TENDERING PORTAL), 
BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE PROOF OF CO PY of E-BG/ E-PAYMENT OF BID 
SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-
TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
V. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated hereunder: 
 
5.1.0 Technical Criteria 
 
5.1.1 The bidder should have executed the work of “Loading/unloading and 
transportation by Road of coal/o verburden/shale/soil/minerals /Ash”  
during the preceding seven (7) years reckoned from the date of techno- 
commercial bid opening meeting the following criteria: 
i) The Bidder should have successfully executed the work for a total quantity 
of 1,44,000 MT  in a continuous period of Six (6)  months in not more than 
two(2) contracts. 
AND 
ii) The Bidder should have successfully executed the work for a minimum qty 
of 24,000 MT in any one (1) month in a single contract. 
5.1.2 The bidder must have valid I3MS license and transportation certificate (as per 
Odisha Mining Portal). 
 Note: 
A. The word ‘executed’ means that the bidder should have executed the work 
during last seven (7) years as on date of techno-commercial bid opening 
even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
B. Reference work (S) executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture/ 
Consortium /Associate can also be considered provided: 
B.1 The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures/ 
consortium/Associate is clearly def ined in the executed joint venture 
agreement /consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the 
bidder’s scope of work and break-up of quantities executed by them as 
individual contribution in the joint Venture/Consortium /Associate, duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority/Ow ner, meet the relevant provisions of 
eligibility criteria. 
B.2 In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated 
joint venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break-up of quantities 
between the partners is not clearly spec ified in the integrated joint venture 
Agreement, then for establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria 5.1.1 of 
QR, the credit of executed quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio 
of bidder's share in the integrated joint Venture Agreement, provided the 
applicant establishes that it regularly undertakes works mentioned in QR. The 
executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture shall be duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority/owner. 
5.2 Financial Criteria  
5.2.1 The Average Annual Financial Turnov er (AATO) of the bidder during 
preceding three (03) consecutive financ ial years as on the date of techno- 
commercial bid opening should not be less than Rs. 9.48 Crores (INR Nine 
crore and forty eight lakhs only). 
5.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy t he financial criteria, stipulated above on 
its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company 
as on the last day of the preceding financ ial year is at least equal to or more 
than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Bidder would be required to furnish al ong with its Techno-Commercial bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking from the Holdi ng Company, supported by the Holding 
Company’s Board Resolution, as pe r the format enclosed in the Bid 
Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
5.2.3 Net worth of the Bidder should no t be less than 100% (hundred percent) 
of its paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial 
year reckoned from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening. 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet 
the requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies, 
wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and 
its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the 
Holding Companies, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of 
their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should 
not be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capital. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 
75%(Seventy-five percentage) of the respective paid-up share capitals and 
Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
5.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
along with copies of the audited cons olidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company. 
ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company. 
5.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year  as on the date of 
Techno- commercial bid opening are not available , the financial results 
certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant  shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results 
for the three (03) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year 
shall be considered for evaluating t he financial parameters. Further, a 
certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding document stating that the financial results of the company are 
under audit as on the date of Tec hno-commercial bid opening and the 
certificate from the practicing Char tered Accountant certifying financial 
parameters is not available. 
 Notes for Clause 5.2.0 above: 
(i) Net worth means  the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free 
reserves. Free reserve means all rese rves credited out of the profits and 
share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India. 
   
VI. Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s)  / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by  a Member of Institute of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying 
Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Do cument Identification Number (UDIN) 
generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI). 
VII. The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be 
considered to ascertain the bidder ‟s compliance to the specified qualifying 
Requirement (QR). 
The Employer at its discretion may seek any clarification and/or documentary evidence 
only for the reference works as mentioned above. However, no change or substitution 
of the reference works by new/additional plant for conforming to the specified 
qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted. 
VIII. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / 
group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
 
IX. 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible  to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions is sued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
X. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder  is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from  India) having specified Transfer of  
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid onl y if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registra tion will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with  India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
XI. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or  all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the 
subject package without assigning any r eason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
XII. The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Documents may 
be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be required to register on the website.  
First time users are requi red to register themselv es on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Users whose email 
address has not been linked to a vendor code al lotted by NTPC/ first time users not 
allotted any vendor code by NTPC, should send a copy of the registration details to the 
e-mail address specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following 
details at least three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
  
i. Request on the letter head of the Company 
ii. Address Proof 
iii. Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
iv. Email ID and Contact No. 
v. Name and Designation of the contact person 
vi. Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank Note:  
No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
XIII. Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is 
considered to be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address 
given below in the presence of Bidder’s r epresentatives who choose to attend the bid 
opening. 
 
XIV. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible.  
 
XV. Address for Communication 
 
DGM/ AGM (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515438/0771-2515485 
Email: bhupeshgupta@ntpc.co.in / monikasagar@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, www.ntpctender.com or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
XVI. Registered Office:  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 