GEM Bid Number : GEM/2025/B/6458215 
SECTION – I 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Project 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
1.  NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited (NTECL), a JV of NTPC Ltd. & TANGEDCO invites 
online bids for its 2 X 500 MW + 1 X 500 MW  Thermal Power Project at Vellivoyal Chavadi Post, 
Ponneri Taluk, Thiruvallur Distt., Chennai, Tamilnadu from eligible bidders for the following package. 
 
Description of work Bid Security / EMD Contract Period 
RECONDITIONING/REPAIR OF 
VALVES IN ASH HANDLING AREA Nil 24 (Twenty Four) Months 
 
2.  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK: The scope of the subje ct package envisages 
“RECONDITIONING/REPAIR OF VALVES IN ASH HANDLING AREA”. 
 
3.  QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QR): The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding 
shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated here under: 
 
A The bidder should have experience of Repair / Servicing of valves of sizes 400 NB or more 
 
4. BRIEF DETAILS:  
 
Type of Bidding Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding 
Pre bid conference Not applicable 
Document download start / end date As per details published in GeM portal 
Last Query date (Queries shall be 
entertained up to this date only) As per details published in GeM portal 
Last Date and Time for Bid Submission (Both 
Techno-commercial Bid and Price Bid) i.e. 
Envelope - I & II together. 
As per details published in GeM portal 
Bid Opening Date & Time   As per details published in GeM portal 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time 
Shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after 
evaluation of Techno -Commercial Bid through GeM 
Portal. 
Source of Funding 
Expenditure under this package is intended to be 
funded from internal resources and/ or borrowings by 
the Employer 
Benefits to MSE’s Applicable. 
Make in India Policy 
APPLICABLE (For details refer SCC)  
'Class‐I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in 
this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 
and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselv es of the 
relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids." 
Preference to Class-I Local Suppliers Class-I Local Suppliers only are eligible to participate in 
this tender. 
Splitting of quantity (MSE) Not allowed 
GEM Bid Number : GEM/2025/B/6458215 
Reverse auction Not applicable 
EMD/BID SECURITY 
As per details  at NIT Clause 1 
 
All bids those are not exempted must be accompanied 
by Bid Security as stipulated in the Bidding documents 
in the form of EMD.  
 
While submitting the bid for the subject work, please 
upload EMD online along with your offer.  
Cost of Bidding document  Free 
1. Offers where bidders have attached Documents for EMD payment / availing exemption from EMD 
in EMD Cover will be checked.  
In case of the BG is submitted in lieu of EMD, then the BG should be on non -judicial stamp paper 
of appropriate value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the state(s) where the BG is submitted or is to 
be acted upon or the rate prevailing in the state where the BG is executed, whichever is higher. Any 
bid not accomp anied by an acceptable BG executed on non -judicial stamp paper of appropriate 
value as per Stamp Act shall be considered non-responsive . 
2. After Techno -commercial bid opening, the bids submitted shall be evaluated for meeting the 
Qualifying Requirements & Technical Requirements. 
3. Only those bids meeting the Qualifying Requirements and complying with the Technical 
Requirements shall be considered for Price Bid Opening.  
4. The date of opening of Price Bid shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after evaluation of 
Techno-Commercial Bid through GeM Portal.   
5. OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
1.  Detailed specifications, Scope of work, Terms & conditions etc., are given in the bidding 
documents. Bid documents can be downloaded from the GeM Portal (https://gem.gov.in).  
 
2.  The Bidder would be required to register on the GeM Portal as a seller. Methodology for 
registration and submission of bids is available at https://gem.gov.in . 
 
3. It is deemed that bidder shall accept all the terms and conditions mentioned in the tender 
documents without any deviation. For that the bidders are required to submit the 
“CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE” for fulfillment of technical/commercial compliance. 
NO DEVIATION IS ACCEPTABLE TO NTECL. IF ANY DEVIATION IS TAKEN BY THE 
BIDDER IN THE “ CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE” OR ANY WHERE ELSE IN THE 
DOCUMENTS INCLUDING BOQ, THEIR BID SHALL BE LIABLE FOR REJECTION. 
  
a) The provisions of Bidding Documents read in  conjunction with Amendment(s)/ 
Clarification(s)/ Addenda/ Errata (if any) are acceptable and no deviation has been 
taken in this regard. 
b) Any deviation to Bidding Documents and its subsequent Amendment(s)/ 
Clarifications(s)/ Addenda/ Errata/ Minutes of Clarification Meeting (if any) as 
mentioned at (a) above found anywhere in Techno Commercial  & Price Bid 
Proposal, implicit or explicit, the same shall not be given effect to in evaluation and 
it will be considered that the bidder complies to all the terms and conditions of 
Bidding Documents without any extra cost to the Owner irrespective of any mention 
to the contrary, anywhere in the bid, f ailing which the Bid Security of the Bidder be 
forfeited. 
  
4. Any Clarification related to the scope, terms & conditions of contract shall be sought under 
Clarification tab of the GeM Portal, latest by the query date as mentioned in the documents. 
Clarifications received after the specified date from the agencies wil l not be entertained. 
NTECL shall respond to any request for clarification or modification of the bidding 
documents that it receives within the timeline specified. 
 
GEM Bid Number : GEM/2025/B/6458215 
NTECL shall post the Clarifications under GeM Representation tab at GeM Portal. 
Bidders can view these clarifications. Bidders are advised to regularly check under 
Representation tab regarding posting of clarification, if any. 
 
Bidders must check the Clarifications issued before submission of Bid. Should NTECL 
deem it necessary to amend the Bidding Document as a result of a clarification, it shall 
do so and upload the amendments in the tender on the GeM portal. After this stage, no 
deviation is acceptable to NTECL.  
 
5. The prospective bidders are invited to submit their Bid comprising of Techno - 
Commercial Bid and Price Bid for the subject package, in line with the provision of the 
bidding documents.  
6. The cost on account of preparation and submission of Bid, negotiations, discussions etc., 
as may be incurred by the Bidder in the process, are not reimbursable by the owner, and 
the owner will in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct 
or outcome of the bidding process. 
 
7. Transfer of Bidding Documents downloaded by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
8. The Owner (NTECL) reserves the right to accept or reject any bid, and to annul the 
bidding process and reject all bids at any time prior to award of contract, without thereby 
incurring liability to the affected Bidder or bidders or any obligation to inform the affected 
Bidder or bidders of the grounds for the Owner’s action. Decision of Owner will be final 
and binding in this regard. 
 
9. NTECL reserves the right to amend/alter/add/delete any provision of this document. 
 
10. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents/GeM, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, 
will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority.  
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has 
extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development 
projects. 
11. “Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying 
Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated 
in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI) 
 
12. Bid Submission: Bidders shall submit their offer/proposal as per Cl.No.40 of SCC 
 
13. The laws applicable to the contract shall be the law in force in India. The courts of 
Chennai alone shall have the exclusive jurisdiction in all matters arising under the 
contract. 
 
GEM Bid Number : GEM/2025/B/6458215 
14. Address for Communication:  
 
DGM / AGM (C&M) 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Station,  
Kuruvimedu Village, Ponneri  Taluk ,  
Vellivoyal Chavadi  Post  ,  
Thiruvallur District, Chennai - 600103. 
 
Contact Persons:  
Mr. Jaideep 
D.G.M. (C&M)  
Email: jaideep@ntpc.co.in 
  Telephone No: 04427926507 
 
 