NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 

NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
DPR, DE & PMC for doubling of track from Kotarlia to Lara project 
and Augmentation of in-plant rail yard including OHE and Signalling 
& Telecommunication (S&T) works 
For 
Lara STPP-II 
Bidding Document No.: CS-9587-350A-9 
1.0 NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding Basis  for 
aforesaid Package, as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
PMC/PEA shall be responsible for the entire scope of work for Project 
Management & Construction and successful commissioning of doubling of track 
from Kotarlia to Lara project and Augmentation of in-plant rail yard including 
OHE and S&T works and getting the work executed through the “contractors” 
engaged for and on behalf of Owner and successful commissioning of OHE 
and S&T System including Associated Electrical & Mechanical System Package 
for linking of track with existing MGR/ Railway Siding system of LARA. The 
scope of work also includes all testing and trial for commissioning of various 
sub-systems for MGR/ Railway Siding system as per terms & conditions 
specified in the bidding document/agreed between PMC/PEA and Owner. Any 
work within railway station premises is not included in the scope of work unless 
specifically mentioned otherwise. 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources. 
4.0 Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB 14.07.2025 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
01.08.2025 up to 13:30 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Techno– 
Commercial bid 
01.08.2025 at 1500 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for submission and opening of 
Price bid 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
    Tender Id:2025_NTPC_98566_1
5.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested 
Bidder from the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited 
under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) 
Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should 
have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e-
tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from agencies 
authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals 
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
6.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the 
Invitation for Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case 
no Bidder / intending Bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
7.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined 
in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), 
Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The 
bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding 
documents in this regard before submission of their bids." 
8.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified. 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the 
same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged 
in development projects. 
10.0 This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted with it are confidential 
and intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are 
addressed. You are requested to keep all the information confidential and do not 
disclose them to any other third party, persons or firms. 
11.0 Address for communication : 
Neeraj Kumar/Rahul Singh  
AGM (CS)/ Sr. Manager (CS)/ 
 NTPC Limited 
 Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
 e-mail: neerajkumar02@ntpc.co.in/rsingh03@ntpc.co.in 
 
12.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 