Page 1 of 3 
NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise) 
Contract Services, EOC Noida 
 INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Carbonated Fly Ash Brick (C-Brick) Plant of 2 Lakh per Day Capacity at NTPC Ramagundam 
Date: 24.07.2025 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No: 2025_NTPC_98848_1
Bidding Document No: CS-3100-702-9 
1.0 NTPC invites on-line bids at Government e-procurement portal of  NIC (GePNIC) at website- 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commer cial 
Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work 
briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
Design, Engineering, Fabrication, Packing, Forwarding, Supply, Transportation and handling, duties, Freight, 
Insurance Unloading, Storage, Construction, Erection, Testing, Commissioning, PG Test of ‘‘Carbonated Fly 
Ash Brick (C-Brick) Plant of 2 Lakh per day capacity’ at NTPC Ramagundam. 
O&M and Supply of Hydrated Lime for 12 months for ‘Carbonated Fly Ash Brick (C-Brick) Plant of 2 Lakh per 
day capacity’ at NTPC Ramagundam. 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Domestic/Own Resources. 
4.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions a re given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the 
Tender is as under:   
Issuance of IFB 24.07.2025 
Documents Download Date and Time From 24.07.2025, 1700 hrs (IST) 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if 
any) 
06.08.2025 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time 05.08.2025 at 10:30 hrs (IST) at 
NTPC Ramagundam 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
Up to 1500 hrs (IST) on 26.08.2025 
Date & Time for opening of Techno–
Commercial bid  
27.08.2025 at 1530 Hrs.(IST) 
Date & Time for submission and opening of 
Price bid  
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno-Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR INR 22,500/- 
Page 2 of 3 
  
  
 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding schedule of 
the Tender. 
 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if app licable) as specified at GePNIC portal of 
NTPC”. 
 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Two Crores 
only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.  
  
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE 
BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUG H ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER 
TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL 
 
 
6.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any in terested Bidder from the e-Tender Portal 
as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tender ing process. The bidders can enroll 
themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-
3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bid ders should have Digital Signature Certificate 
(DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if  required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also  has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall b e submitted ONLY at the e-Tender 
Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
7.0  Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as  Annexure-I to this IFB. 
 
8.0  “Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 an d its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the rele vant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids." 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is regist ered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in 
the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specif ied Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a land border with I ndia, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to  bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has ex tended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to anoth er is not permissible. 
 
Page 3 of 3 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of  Bid shall not construe that bidder is 
considered qualified. 
 
12.0  NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/wit hdraw the Invitation for Bids (IFB) without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/inte nding bidder shall have any claim arising 
out of such action. 
 
13.0 Subject package being tender for works contract, with refe rence to Public Procurement Policy for 
Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order, 2012, MSE benefit not applicable. 
 
13.0  Address for Communication 
 
Sr. Manager (CS)/ AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
Contact: 9771440920  
Phone: 0120-494-6550/ 6520 
e-mail: ravikumar04@ntpc.co.in / abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites:  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
     or https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
 
14.0  Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 
Annexure-I to IFB 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS for 
Design and Set Up of ‘Carbonated Fly Ash Brick (C-Brick) Plant of 2 Lakh per day capacity’ 
at NTPC Ramagundam 
 
1.0.0 In addiƟon to the requirements sƟpulated under secƟon Ins trucƟon to Bidder (ITB), the bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements sƟpulated here under: 
TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
1.1.0 
a) The Bidder should be an Engineering, Procurement and ConstrucƟon (EPC) organizaƟon and should 
have executed in the last 10 years from the last day of month p revious to one in which NIT has been 
invited, industrial projects on EPC basis (with or without civi l works) in the area of Power / Process 
industry/ Fly Ash brick plant/ Coal handling plant /Ash Handlin g Plant/ Autoclave Aerated Concrete 
[AAC] Plant/CCU (Carbon Capture & UƟlisaƟon) plant, with a cumulaƟve value of such project(s) ₹183 
Crore (One Hundred Eighty Three Crore Only) or more with individual contract value of such project(s) 
not less than ₹61 Crore (Sixty One Crore only). 
AND 
b) The bidder should have valid agreement with technology licensor or with an enƟty having the right 
to use the technology. Such technology licensor or enƟty should  have successfully 
Engineered/Designed a CO2 capture plant of minimum 20 TPD capac ity and that CO2 Capture Plant 
should have been commissioned at least six months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid 
opening with at least one month of successful operaƟon. 
1.1.1 In such a case, the Bidder should furnish an agreement executed by the Bidder and the agency 
complying with the requirements menƟoned in Cl 1.1.0(b)as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents. The agreement should be submiƩed along with the Techno-Commercial bid, failing which 
the Bidder shall be disqualiﬁed and its bid shall be rejected. 
Notes for Clause 1.1.0 
a. Technology License agreement/ Agreement for Right to Use of Tec hnology shall be valid at 
least three years from the date of Techno-commercial bid openin g or Ɵll the end of defect 
liability period of the contract or the compleƟon of O&M period, whichever is later. 
b. The speciﬁed value of executed work is excluding any taxes and duƟes. 
c. The word “executed” in Clause 1.1.0(a) means the Bidder should have commissioned the 
plant(s) within the speciﬁed period even if the contract has been started earlier and/ or is not 
closed. 
d. In case a bidder submits two or more bids with separate Technol ogy Providers, all such bids 
shall be rejected. A Technology Provider can Ɵe-up with mulƟple bidders. 
e. The Bidder shall also be considered qualiﬁed in case the award for execuƟng the reference 
works has been received by the Bidder either directly from the owner of the plant or any other 
intermediary. However, a cerƟﬁcate from the owner of the plant shall be furnished by the 
Bidder along with the Techno- Commercial bid for the successful  operaƟon criterion as  
speciﬁed at clause 1.1.0 (a). 
f. If the Value of the reference works indicated in clause 1.1.0 ( a) is in foreign currency, SBI Bill 
Selling exchange rate as on the date of award of the reference work shall be considered. In 
case the exchange rate as on the date of award is not available , the exchange rate as on the 
next available day shall be considered. 
2.0.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be les s than Rs. 122 Crore (Rupees One 
Hundred Twenty Two Crore Only ) during the preceding three (3) completed ﬁnancial years as on the 
date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
2.2 In case a Bidder does not saƟsfy the average annual turnover criteria, sƟpulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the sƟpulated tur nover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the l ast day of the preceding ﬁnancial 
year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capita l of the Holding Company. In such an 
event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its T echno-Commercial bid, a LeƩer of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board ResoluƟon, as 
per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging uncondiƟ onal and irrevocable ﬁnancial 
support for the execuƟon of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
2.3 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up share capital as 
on the last day of the preceding ﬁnancial year. In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria 
on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on t he strength of its Subsidiary (ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a 
case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ie s) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less 
than 75% (seventy ﬁve percent) of their respecƟve paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1,X2,X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respecƟve paid up 
share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.4 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited ﬁnancial statements on standalone enƟty basis, 
the unaudited unconsolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Bidder can be considered acceptable 
provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for substanƟaƟon of its qualiﬁcaƟon: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Bidder along with copies of the 
audited consolidated ﬁnancial statements of its Holding Company. 
(ii) A CerƟﬁcate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as pe r the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, staƟng that the unaudited unconsolidated ﬁna ncial statements form part of the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Holding Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last ﬁnancial year as on  the date of Techno Commercial bid 
opening are not available, the ﬁnancial results cerƟﬁed by a pracƟcing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the CerƟﬁcate from a pracƟcing Chartered 
Accountant cerƟfying its ﬁnancial parameters, the audited results of three consecuƟve ﬁnancial years 
preceding the last ﬁnancial year shall be considered for evaluaƟng the ﬁnancial parameters. Further, a 
CerƟﬁcate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents 
staƟng that the ﬁnancial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial 
bid opening and the CerƟﬁcate from the pracƟcing Chartered Acco untant cerƟfying the ﬁnancial 
parameters is not available. 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserves means all reserves credited out of the proﬁts and share premium account but do 
not include reserves credited out of the revaluaƟon of the asse ts, write back of 
depreciaƟon provision and amalgamaƟon. Further any debit balanc e of Proﬁt and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or wriƩen oﬀ, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascri bed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
iv. For Annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days 
prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 