 
Page 1 of 3 
 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
Contract Services, EOC Noida 
 
    INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
Balance of Plant (BOP) Package For CCU (Carbon Capture and Utilization) Plants 
at  
 
NTPC Pudimadaka 
 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No:                                  Date:  
 
Bidding Document No: CS-9590-960-9 
 
1.0 NTPC invites on -line bids at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website- 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two  Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno -Commercial 
Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid)  from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work 
briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
 
The Balance of Plant (BOP) Package for setting up utilities associated for Balance of Plant (BOP) Package 
For CCU (Carbon Capture and Utilization) Plants  at NTPC Pudimadaka shall include Design, Engineering, 
Fabrication, Packing, Forwarding, Supply, Transportation and handling, Custom duty (and any other duties), 
Freight, Insurance, Loading & Unloading, Storage, Construction, Erection, Commissioning, Testing, PG Test, 
Training and O&M for two years. 
 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Domestic/Own Resources. 
 
4.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available at the GePNIC ( e-tender) portal at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the 
Tender is as under:   
  
  
Issuance of IFB 25.07.2025 
Documents Download Date and Time From 25.07.2025, 1700 hrs (IST) 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time** 05.08.2025 at 10:30 hrs (IST) at NETRA, NTPC 
Ltd., Greater Noida 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any)*** 
08.08.2025 
Start date for receipt of Bid (both Techno -
Commercial and Price) 
18.08.2025 10:00 hrs 
Last date for receipt of Bid (both Techno -
Commercial and Price) 
Up to 15:00 hrs (IST) on 25.08.2025 
Date & Time for opening of Techno –
Commercial bid  
26.08.2025 at 10:30 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for submission and opening of 
Price bid  
Shall be intimated after opening of Techno -
Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR INR 22,500/- 
Bid Security in INR INR 2,00,00,000/- 
 
  
  *Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding schedule of 
the Tender. 
 
** Pre-Bid conference will be held on schedule date and time at  NETRA, NTPC Ltd., Greater Noida. 
However, bidders may join Pre-Bid conference online via MS team link given below; 
 
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-
join/19%3ameeting_MTUwMjA2MzAtOTg3MC00ZWZiLTliYzUtYzhkZjFiNmQzNjc4%40thread
.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%222c631f90-6a65-4bb3-a626-
c0f6f5790a9a%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22cccb0c71-28cb-4bf8-9381-35e590581480%22%7d 
 
 
***It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal of 
NTPC”. 
 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Two Crores 
only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.   
  
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE 
BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER 
TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
 
6.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder  from the e-Tender Portal 
as per specified schedule. The  tender is invited under e -tendering process. The bidders can enroll 
themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class -
3 key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate  
(DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain  DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt.  of India. The e-Tender Portal  also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted  ONLY at the e -Tender 
Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
7.0  Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Annexure-I to this IFB. 
 
8.0  “Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids."  
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class -II Local Supplier / Non-Local 
Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified  in the Bidding Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is  registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in 
the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of  Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a  land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from  those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the  Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents  and /or submission of Bid  shall not construe that bidder is 
considered qualified. 
 
12.0  NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids (IFB) without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising 
out of such action. 
 
13.0  Address for Communication 
 
Sr. Manager (CS)/ AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
Contact: 6202628480 / 9650992301 
e-mail: lekrajsingh@ntpc.co.in / abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites:  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
     or https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
 
14.0  Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 
Qualifying Requirements 
“Development, Design and Setup of Balance of Plant (BOP) for CCUS Units” at 
NTPC Pudimadaka 
1.0.0 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidders 
(ITB), the bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder: 
1.1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
a. The bidder should have executed project(s) on Engineering, Procurement &
Construction (EPC) basis (with or without civil works) in the area of power
/metallurgy/ steel /oil & gas/ petrochemical/ hydrocarbon/ chemical/ water
or effluent treatment plant /fertilizer plants, during last Ten(10) years
reckoned as on the date of techno-commercial Bid Opening, with a cumulative
value of such project(s) being ₹216 Crores (Rupees Two Hundred sixteen
crores  Only) or more with individual contract value of such project(s) not less
than ₹72 Crores (Rupees Seventy Two Crores Only). The reference project(s)
should have been successfully operated for at least 12 months prior to the date
of techno- commercial bid opening.
Notes for Clause 1.1.0. 
a. The word “executed”  in Clause 1.1.0(a) means the Bidder should have
commissioned the plant(s) within the specified period even if the contract has
been started earlier and/ or is not closed.
b. The specified value of executed work is excluding any taxes and duties.
c. The Bidder shall also be considered qualified in case the award for executing the
reference works has been received by the Bidder either directly from the owner
of the plant or any other intermediary organization. However, a certificate from
the owner of the plant shall be furnished by the Bidder along with the Techno-
Commercial bid for the successful operation criterion as specified at clause
1.1.0(a).
Annexure-I
 
 
d. If the Value of the reference works indicated at clause 1.1.0(a) is in foreign 
currency, SBI Bill Selling exchange rate as on the date of award of the reference 
work shall be considered. In case the exchange rate as on the date of award is 
not available, the exchange rate as on the  next available day shall  be 
considered. 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA  
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
₹172 Crores (Rupees one hundred seventy -two crores Only) or  in equivalent 
foreign currency. 
 
2.2 In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above,  provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such  an event, 
the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, 
a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding 
Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the 
Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.3 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid-
up share capital as  on the last day of the preceding financial year.  In case the 
Bidder does not meet the Net worth  criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary  (ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding company, wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding  Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) 
of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should 
not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid -up share 
capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as 
follows: -Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / 
(Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
 
 
Where X1,X2,X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of 
the respective 
paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
2.4  In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the  bidding documents, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of  the consolidated financial 
statements of the Holding Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid  opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is 
not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing  Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive  
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating 
the financial  parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the 
financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 2.0 
 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserves means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but do not include  reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write -back of depreciation provision and  amalgamation. Further any 
debit balance of Profit  and Loss account and miscellaneous  expenses to the 
extent not adjusted or written-off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and  
surplus. 
 
 
ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them 
as per Companies Act of India. 
iv) For Annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, SBI Bill Selling exchange 
rate as on seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening 
shall be used. In case the  exchange rate as on (7) days prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening is not available, the exchange rate as on the 
next available day shall be considered. 
 
 
 
   Brief Scope of Work: 
 
The Balance of Plant (BOP) Package for setting up utilities associated for CCUS units like 10 TPD 
Ethanol, 150 TPD Urea  at NTPC Pudimadaka shall include Design, Engineering, Fabrication, 
Packing, Forwarding, Supply, Transportation and handling, Custom duty (and any other duties), 
Freight, Insurance, Loading & Unloading, Storage, Construction, Erection, Commissioning, 
Testing, PG Test, Training and O&M for two years.  
 
Salient Feature: This package shall be used to cater different types of utilities required for CCUS 
Units. This ‘Balance of Plant’ package includes following sub-packages:  
 
SN Sub Package in BOP Facilities  Remarks 
1 CO2 Hub Includes Liquid CO₂ Storage Tank, Liquid CO₂ Transfer Pumps, 
CO₂ Pressure Reducing System (PRS) along with associated 
storage facilities and CO₂ pipelines for capacities of 25 TPD and 
2×325 TPD, 
2 Cooling Water System Includes Adiabatic Cooling Tower, CW Pumps, CW Piping, CW 
Valves, and associated auxiliaries to cater 70 MWth Load. 
3 Integrated pipe rack and cable 
tussle 
To cater to the water, steam, air, firefighting, and CO₂ gas 
pipelines supplying various CCUS units, approximately 10 MLD 
of water will be required—comprising 8 MLD of treated water 
and 2 MLD of DM water. 
4 Fire Fighting System Fire water pipelines with necessary tap -offs for hydrants and 
sprinkler systems. 
5 Steam Condensate Water 
System 
Includes condensate storage tank, pumps, and piping network. 
6 Electric Boiler Electric Boiler to support steam generation  
7 Electrical System 33KV/11 KV substation with MCR  comprising Transformers, 
Switchgear, High Tension (HT) and Low Tension (LT) Motor 
Control Centres (MCCs), and other electrical auxiliaries.  
8 Control & Instrumentation 
System 
Includes Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC), 
Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), and instrumentation 
required for plant control and monitoring. 
9 Civil Works Includes construction of Control Room, Machine Room, Admin 
Building, Gate Complex, canteen, Structural Steel Works, RCC 
Works, roads, drains, pedestrians and other supporting civil 
infrastructure. 
 
Comprehensive O&M of ‘Balance of Plant’ package for a period of 2 years from the date of 
commissioning. 
 
 
Project Schedule 
  
   
SR. NO.   ACTIVITIES / MILESTONE   PERIOD IN MONTHS FROM NOA   
START   FINISH   
1   Engineering Drawings & Documents  0   4 
 2  Placement of Purchase Order for 
‘Bought Out’ items  
3 9 
 3  Site Mobilization  2 4 
 4  Civil works     3  12 
 5  Supply of Plant & Machinery 4 12 
 6  Erection    5 13 
7 Commissioning  13 15 
 
Time to Complete all facilities from date of notification of Award: 15 months 