 
 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited  
(A Government of India Enterprise)  
Muzaffarpur Thermal Power Station 
 
Contracts and Materials Department 
 
Expression of Interest (EOI) 
 
Ref No. : EOI/2025/MTPS/C&M/01            Date: 04.08.2025 
 
 
Request letters from owners of commercial register vehicles (AC -Bolero neo/ Scorpio model January 2025 
or later) are invited for providing services of hiring of their vehicles tentatively for 22 numbers of vehicles on 
our following Special Terms and Conditions for three years (which may be extended for another Two(02) 
years). 
A. AC -Bolero neo/ Scorpio --- 12 hrs. Duty(13 no.s tentatively)  
B. AC -Bolero neo/ Scorpio --- 24 Hrs Duty ( 09 no.s tentatively)  
C. Diesel cost reimbursement: @ 12 KM per litre(applicable for both 12 Hrs. duty and 24 Hrs. duty). 
 
Start date of submission of request letter: 04.08.2025 
Last date of submission of request letter: 25.08.2025 
Interested individual vehicles owners are requested to submit their application and LOU(as per formats 
uploaded on ntpc tender site: www.ntpctender.com) duly filled in all respect on or before: 25.08.2025.  
 
Note : 
1. NTPC committee will scrutinize all the available interested vendors. The vendors will be 
qualified/shortlisted by the committee based on the documents submitted as per above 
mentioned timeline and Vendor list will be updated for NIT among shortlisted vendors. 
2. Existing SAP vendors participated in previous vehicle NIT and qualified vehicle vendors of EOI 
2022 at Kanti, are also requested to express their interest afresh in the prescribed format failing 
which they will not be considered for NIT. 
3. All interested Vendors are requested to submit all documents as per the list provided in the 
Application for  hiring of closed jeep in NTPC/ MTPS-Kanti. 
4. This EOI is only for short listing of qualified interested vendors for NIT(Notice inviting tender). 
 
 
 
For detail Terms & conditions, please visit our website : www.ntpctender.com or may contact site (C&M) on 
Ph: 09264296600/06223267356/06223267371, e-mail ID : shaguftaanjum@ntpc.co.in, 
ramniwaschaudhary@ntpc.co.in, tacharya@ntpc.co.in 
 
Address for Communication: AGM (C&M) ADM building, NTPC, MTPS, P.O. Kanti Thermal, Dist.- 
Muzaffarpur (Bihar),Pin:- 843130. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Note:- 
1. Preference shall be given to newer vehicle with respect to date of registration of 
vehicle (re-registration shall not to be considered during preference)                                                                                                                                                       
2. Interested individual owner(s) shall have to submit a letter of undertaking (LOU) on 
non-judicial stamp paper of value of Rs. 100/- in specified format of NTPC. Format of 
LOU is attached herewith. 
3. All individual application / consent letter to provide hiring service of closed jeep shall be 
accompanied with Letter of Undertaking (LOU) along with relevant papers of vehicle 
intended for hiring (like: ownership / commercial registration, Insurance, Fitness, permit 
etc.). 
 
4. Owners having with newly purchased vehicle (registration no. not allotted / 
registration under process) may also apply with a declaration that papers related to 
commercial registration will be submitted within next one month from the date of 
deployment of Vehicle and in that case first running bill will be processed only after 
submission of registration document / relevant papers. 
 
5. Interested vendors have to submit LOU & application for each vehicle of 12 hrs./ 
24hrs duty separately. 
. 
 
(Application for  hiring of closed jeep in NTPC/ MTPS-Kanti ) 
 
Date:  
To, 
AGM (C&M) 
NTPC,  
Muzaffarpur Thermal Power Station 
P.O – Kanti Thermal 
Dist- Muzaffarpur , 
BIHAR -843130 
 
Sub: Request for hiring of closed jeep  
Ref: Expression of Interest (EOI, ref: No. EOI/2025/MTPS/C&M/01) published in 
ntpctender.ntpc.co.in 
Dear Sir, 
 
With reference to the above, it is confirmed that I (we) have gone through the detail 
terms and conditions for providing services for hiring of jeep in NTPC and further agree 
to deploy my vehicles (AC -Bolero neo/ Scorpio only of Model January 2025 or later), 
Model (Yr.): ......................... , 
Registration No.
 ............................................. or Registration under process or I will 
purchase the new vehicle after received of Letter of Intent (LOI) from NTPC and 
will deploy the vehicle with in 15 days from the date of issue of LOI) on  
monthly hiring charge and other terms/ conditions finalised by NTPC for the period of 
three year with a provision of extension for another two years as per 
requirement.  
 
I also give my consent to deploy the above said vehicle on 12 hrs duty or 24 hrs duty as 
per requirement of NTPC.(Strike out which is not applicable) 
 
Copy of document related to vehicle (like: ownership / registration, insurance, 
commercial tax / permit etc.) alongwith copy of PAN card & identity proof (voter card / 
Aadhar card / Driving License etc. containing address) of owner is  hereby attached. 
 
Thanking You, 
 
 
Signature of owner with date 
Name:  
Addres: 
 
 
 
 
Mobile No . 
E-mail ID : 
Enclosure :  
i) Registration copy of vehicle  
ii) Insurance Copy  
iii) Document related to Commercial tax / permit 
iv) Pan Card of Owner  
v) Identity proof / address proof of owner/ Letter head containing mobile no., E-mail ID etc.  
 
PROFORMA OF LETTER OF UNDERTAKING (LOU) 
 
Ref. No.:    Date: 
 
To 
NTPC, 
Muzaffarpur Thermal Power Station 
P.O. – Kanti Thermal 
Dist: - Muzaffarpur (Bihar) 
PIN- 843130 
 
Dear Sir (s), 
1. I / We have read and examined the detail terms and conditions for providing services of 
hiring of vehicles (AC -Bolero neo/ Scorpio  only of Model  January 2025 or later)) on 12 hrs 
duty / 24 Hrs duty in NTPC as covered in following document. 
A. Expression of Interest (EOI, Ref No. EOI/2025/MTPS/C&M/01) published in 
ntpctender.ntpc.co 
B. Detail Terms & Conditions for hiring of closed jeep in ntpctender.ntpc.co 
2. I / We hereby submit our consent to deploy my / our vehicle (mention the Type & Model of  
Vehicle, Registration No. of vehicle) on monthly hiring charge and other terms / conditions 
fixed by NTPC. Further I also agree to deploy the vehic le on 12 hrs duty or 24 hrs (strike out 
which is not applicable) . as per requirement of NTPC. 
3. I have purchased AC -Bolero neo/ Scorpio only of Model January 2025 or later …… ......on 
date: ............................ and regist ration of the same is under process. Further I also confirm 
my acceptance to submit document related to commercial registration within one month  from 
the date of deployment of my vehicle in NTPC. Further I also agree to deploy the vehicle on 
12 hrs duty or 24 hrs (strike out which is not applicable) as per requirement of NTPC.  
I also agree that in case of delay in submission of registration papers, running bill can be held 
up by NTPC and same shall be released only after submission of aforesaid document.  Or 
4. I will purchase the new vehicle after receipt of Letter of Intent (LOI) from NTPC and will 
deploy the vehicle within 15 days from the date of issue of LOI. Further I also agree to 
deploy the vehicle on 12 hrs duty or 24 hrs (strike out which is not applicable) as per 
requirement of NTPC. 
5. In case of non deployment of vehicle in time as specified above, deposited initial security 
deposit shall be forfeited. 
 
6. I / We hereby further undertake that during the period of contract (initially t hree year which 
may be further extended for anot her two year) I / We shall comply with Terms, conditions 
provision (s)of tender documents. 
 
Signature of Owner with date  
Name: 
Address: 
Witness: (02 Nos. )  
I) 
 
Signature / name with date 
Address ____________________ 
 
II) 
Signature / Name with date 
Address: 
                                                                    SCOPE OF WORK 
 
1. Period of the Contract: - 
a. The vehicle shall be deployed for 03 years contract period from date of start. This contract 
period may be extended for further period of 02 year (one year at one time), if required by 
NTPC on satisfactory performance of the contract and having good running condition of the 
vehicle subject to physical fitness examination by Auto base with valid fitness certificate. The 
party must give unconditional acceptance for the same. 
b. However, during the currency of the contract, if the company does not require the services 
of vehicles, it shall terminate the contract by giving one-month notice in writing. 
c. If during the currency of the contract, the performance of the contractor is found 
unsatisfactory, the contract may be terminated without any notice forthwith. 
d. Jeep may be required to be sent to other nearby areas on the discretion of EIC. In such 
cases a night halt is also possible. 
i) Night Halt charge: @ Rs.200/-per night (Applicable for 12 Hrs. duty vehicle 
only, if vehicle beyond 30 KM from KBUNL and stays beyond 12:00 night as 
per certification of EIC), either night halt charges or overtime charges shall be 
paid whichever is higher. 
ii) Over Time Charge: @ Rs.154/- per Hour (Applicable for 12Hrs.duty vehicle 
only) shall be paid extra as per certification of EIC. It shall be restricted to four 
hours in a day. 
e. Duty Hours for Vehicles engaged on 12 Hrs. basis shall be from 8.00 AM to 8.00 PM. 
Vehicle shall not be rented out to any other place / organization / office / individuals during 
the entire period of contract. 
f. Maximum Permissible limit of running of vehicle (under official use) in a month is 2500 
Kms(12 hrs. duty) and 3000 Kms(24 hrs. duty). 
 
 
 
2. Make and Model of the Vehicle: - 
a. Model of the deployed closed jeep shall be of year 2025 (w.e.f. 1st January 2025) or later. 
b. Following vehicles can be deployed-AC -Bolero neo/ Scorpio. 
3. Reimbursement of Miscellaneous charges/fee: - 
a. Charge/Fee with respect to 
i. Comprehensive Commercial Insurance of the vehicle covering the Driver/passengers. 
Comprehensive Commercial Insurance of the vehicle shall be taken by the agency.                         
ii. Taxi Permit or/& Commercial Operation of vehicle permit. 
iii. Pollution under Control Certificate. 
iv. Fitness Certificate Charges. 
v. Toll Charges (During Official journey). 
vi. Parking charges (During Official journey). 
will be paid by NTPC as per actual on production of supporting documents/receipts. 
b. Any penalty levied by the authority for non-compliance will not be reimbursed by NTPC. 
c. Insurance charges will be paid on Pro-rata basis in each RA bill. 
d. Cost of diesel milage 12KMPL. 
4. Security Deposit: 
Security deposit 5% as applicable will be recovered from bills. 
5. Insurance: 
You shall be solely responsible to take and maintain all insurance necessary for performing 
the works under this Contract. All Contractors/Agencies must obtain ESI Code under the ESI 
Act 1948 & must comply with all the provisions of ESI Act 1948. 
6. Paid Off Day for servicing of vehicle: - 
a. 1 day in a month shall be given for maintenance of the jeep during the period of the 
contract. However, prior consent of EIC is to be taken at least 2 days in advance by 
Contractor before proceeding for such work. 
7. Contractors All Risk (CAR) Policy shall not be applicable. 
8.  The driver shall be paid minimum labour wages of Skilled Manpower with all components 
PF, ESI etc. as per the guidelines of the NTPC issues time to time. 
9. Accident: - 
a) Any accidents major or minor during the running, caused by the staff of contractor or injury 
to the staff of the contractor or damage to any public or private property on or off the duty, 
shall be the liability of the Contractor. NTPC shall in no way be responsible for the same. All 
legal proceedings arising out of this will be dealt with by the contractor without affecting the 
other terms of this contract. 
b) If the vehicle provided by the contractor for the services to the company meets with an 
accident, while being utilized by the company, no claim on account of damages to the 
vehicles or of the persons traveling in such vehicles including the employees of the 
contractor (Driver /Cleaner of the vehicle) shall be entertained by NTPC Ltd. 
c) The contractor shall cover such risk adequately by obtaining comprehensive insurance 
policies as per commercial norms. 
d) If the vehicle supplied on services by the contractor to the company meets with an 
accident due to reasons attributable to the contractor or his employees and causes damage 
to the persons / property of the company, the contractor shall be liable to make good such 
losses in the manner as prescribed by the company. 
10. Terms of Payment: - 
a) All payments due to the contractor will be payable on completion of a month in the 
subsequent month after receiving proper bill from the contractor in the prescribed format 
along with supporting documents as may be needed from time to time. 
b) Such payment will be based on the documentary evidence of utilization of the vehicle 
which will be based on the logbook / trip sheets, a copy of which is to be submitted by the 
contractor along with his bills. Payment due, if any will be based on verification of such 
documents. 
c) The contractor will arrange fuel i.e. Diesel and payment will be made on the basis of 
prescribed milage. 
d) The cost of Urea, oil and lubricant required for running of the vehicle will be borne by the 
contractor. No reimbursement will be made for the same. 
e) The rates of the diesel shall be as per the prevailing rates at nearest Petrol/Diesel Pump 
& shall be applicable during the period of utilization. If jeep is required to be used beyond 
100 KM from the plant premises the rates of diesel shall be as per actual on production of 
receipt in original with the monthly bill. 
f) The contractor pays all such charges mentioned in point 3 and NTPC will reimburse the 
same later with RAB. The contractor cannot ask for advance payment/ on spot payment by 
employee. 
11.  Penalties: - 
a. No payment shall be made for the day of non-deployment and in addition penalty shall be 
at the rate of the daily awarded rate. 
b) In case the EIC has no objection to the specific request made in advance by the 
contractor for not making the Vehicle available for a specific duration on day/days then no 
penalty shall be levied for such authorized period of non-availability of the Vehicle. However, 
no payment shall be made for such period certified by the EIC. 
c) If company be held responsible for any of the lapses on the part of service provider or his 
employees at any stage during the contract and company made liable to incur such 
expenditure on this account, the company shall deduct such amounts together with 
overhead charges from any payment due to the contractor, including the security deposit and 
the contractor shall have no objection for the same. 
d) Any claims that may arise out of the contractor or his employees, if met by the company, 
the company shall have the right to recover such amounts from the contractor in full with an 
additional charge of 20% overheads. 
e) The speedometer/KM reading should always be in working condition. Any malfunctioning 
of the same should be rectified next day, failing which penalty of 10% of hiring rate per day 
shall be imposed. 
f) If vehicle is financed by any bank/ financial institutions, then following shall be applicable: 
“In case of failure of payment of EMI on time by the agency and any incident, as 
lifting/recovery of   vehicle by the financer, happens during the period of contract, then 
additional penalty of Rs. 2000/- shall be imposed and deducted from the bill of the agency 
and the contract may be terminated with banning the agency for minimum two years. 
g) In case of major break down /major maintenance / accident, Owner may provide 
substitute vehicle of same type with all other compliance (like Year of registration / 
commercial registration. Make / Model etc ) for the maximum period of one month with 
proper information/ request to EIC / contract Deptt. In case of accident of vehicle during 
period of contract, there shall be no liability (of any kind) on NTPC. 
 
 
12. Sub-Contract: - 
The contractor shall not sub-let any portion of the contract without the prior written approval 
of the accepting authority. 
13. Permissible Deviations: - -100% to +20 % as per GCC of O&M 
14. Driver: 
a) For vehicle deployed on 24-hour basis, the contractor must necessarily deploy 2 (two) 
drivers, for interval of 12 hours, for driving the vehicle. 
b) Will be paid the wages of a skilled manpower by the contractor. 
c) Must have valid driving license. 
d) Must have a dedicated mobile phone for jeep in working condition which will be provided 
by the contractor. 
e) PPEs (Provided by the contractor). 
f) Should Report on duty at their own cost / arrangement at MTPS. 
g) Should maintain all the relevant documents with him while driving. 
h) Will be responsible to maintain the logbook. 
i) Should maintain in Hygienic, Neat and Clean conditions. 
j) Should be in healthy and mindful conditions. 
15. Contractor responsibilities (Below but not limited to): - 
a) Vehicles provided for the services to the company shall be owned by the contractor and 
shall not be sold or hypothecated during the currency of the contract without obtaining 
written permission from the company. 
b) In case of absence of driver originally deputed, the Contractor will provide a substitute 
driver who has valid driving license. 
c) The contractor shall provide the driver with enough to carry out minor maintenance work 
in the jeep arising out of normal running of the jeep. He shall also ensure that the diesel level 
is sufficient on all days of the contract. Non availability of diesel in jeep will be treated as 
non-deployment and penalty as per relevant clause above. 
d) The contractor or his employees shall not at any time cause or permit any Nuisance or 
damage to properties on the site and township and or do anything which shall cause 
unnecessary disturbance or inconvenience to the owners, tenants or residents and the 
public in general. 
e) The contractor shall comply with the provisions of all applicable Laws/Act/Rules and other 
relevant statutes relating thereto made from time to time and the total responsibility in this 
regard will be to the account of the contractor only. 
f) Vehicle supplied to the company on hire should possess valid commercial registration / 
licenses as may be required by the respective RTOs for the whole duration of the contract. 
Failure to maintain the currency of such registration /licenses during the period of contract 
will lead to immediate termination of the contract without giving any notice. A copy of such 
registration / licenses shall be submitted to the officer in-charge before commencement of 
work. 
g) The contractor shall comply with the provisions of all applicable Laws/Act/Rules and other 
relevant statutes relating thereto made from time to time and the total responsibility in this 
regard will be to the account of the contractor only. 
h) Contractor shall be solely responsible for the safety of driver and the jeep. NTPC will not 
be responsible in whatsoever manner for this. 
i) The contractor shall not sub-let any portion of the contract without the prior written 
approval of the accepting authority. 
j) The agency must submit the following (But not limited to) to EIC prior to deployment of 
vehicle (s) for duty 
i. Registration No. of vehicle and copy of Registration Certificate & Insurance. 
ii. Owner’s name & address and Phone Number 
iii. Driver’s Name & address and Phone number 
iv. Copy of driving license of driver engaged 
k) The contractor is responsible to pay the wages of the driver as per the norms specified in 
the contract or notified by the NTPC time to time. 
l) The gate pass is to be arranged for the vehicle(s) and the driver(s) by the agency. 
 
16. NTPC: - 
a) NTPC shall not be liable to provide either accommodation or garage facilities to the 
contractor or his employees. 
b) NTPC shall not be responsible for the boarding and lodging of the drivers at outstations 
including in case of night halts. The contractor shall provide such facilities to the drivers and 
other employees at his cost and company will have no liability for the same. 
c) All minor and major repairs of the vehicles supplied for deployment to the company shall 
be made by the contractor and NTPC shall have no liability on this account. 
d) NTPC will pay the GST as applicable. 
e) NTPC General Conditions of Contract for O&M works are applicable in all other 
conditions. 
 
Special Terms & Conditions for hiring of Vehicle 
1. This EOI is published to Establish the Database of Interested Eligible Vendors. The 
Modalities of Award to Vendors will be Part of detailed scope of work, Terms and 
Conditions of subsequent Tendering. Normally one vendor will be awarded with only 
1 vehicle of any category. However, based on the availability of eligible Vendors it 
may be increased up to a maximum of 2 Vehicles. 
2. Documents to be submitted by interested vendors. (Aadhar, PAN, Letter Head 
consisting of Firm/Vendor Name with Full Address, Mobile No., E-Mail ID).  
3. Interested vendors may submit LOU (letter of undertaking, format attached). 
4. Preference shall be given to newer vehicle with respect to date of registration of 
vehicle (re-registration shall not to be considered during preference). 
5. Interested individual owner(s) shall have to submit a letter of undertaking 
(LOU) on non-judicial stamp paper of value of Rs. 100/- in specified 
format of NTPC. Format of LOU is attached herewith. 
6. All individual application / consent letter to provide hiring service of closed 
jeep shall be accompanied with Letter of Undertaking (LOU) along with 
relevant papers of vehicle intended for hiring (like: ownership / commercial 
registration, Insurance, Fitness, permit etc.). 
7. Owners having with newly purchased vehicle (registration no. not allotted / 
registration under process) may also apply with a declaration that papers related to 
commercial registration will be submitted within next one month from the date of 
deployment of Vehicle and in that case first running bill will be processed only after 
submission of registration document / relevant papers. 
 
 
 
 
 