NTPC LTD 
VDC, RAIPUR 
 
Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for Supply and Application of paint on steel 
structures, pipelines and equipment at NTPC Stations (Category -1) 
Subject: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for Supply and Application of paint on steel 
structures pipelines and equipment (CAT-1) 
 
 
 
 
 
A CEG Details   
  CEG No. OFF-13 
  CEG 
DESCRIPTION 
Supply  and Application of paint on steel  
structures, pipelines and equipment at 
NTPC Stations (category-1) 
  RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
CPG-1/ VDC 
B TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
1.The applicant should have executed the works of ‘Supply and application’ of 
paint on metallic surfaces for a minimum value of Rs. 50 lakhs for a height not less 
than 15-meter, in a single PO/award/contract within the preceding five (5) years  
from the last date of submission of application. 
 
C 1. QR Documents: PO / LOA copies for ‘supply and apply’ of paint and Invoice(s) / 
Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful 
execution of the credential order. 
2. Other Documents to be uploaded: In addition to the documents required in support of 
Qualifying Requirements as stated at B) above, following documents are also required to 
be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar works during previous five years 
from the last date of submission of application. Copy of Invoice(s) / Completion certificate 
from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of ‘supply and apply’ of 
paint against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the last date of submission of application. In case 
NTPC LTD 
VDC, RAIPUR 
 
 
 
 the audited documents are not ready / available / applicable, then certified copy by a 
registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. Audited documents and 
certified copies by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall bear UDIN number. 
3. Udyam Registration / NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate. 
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
NTPC may ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all documents/ facilities can be 
verified/ assessed, if required. 
D Similar Works Similar work means applicant should have executed the work of 
‘Supply and application’ of paint on metallic surfaces within the 
preceding five (5) years from the last date of submission of 
application. 
E BRIEF SCOPE 
OF WORK 
The scope of work includes supply and application of paint on 
internal/external surfaces of pipelines, tanks, equipment and metallic 
structures in Boiler area, TG area, Ash handling plant, Water treatment 
plant, Coal handling plant, CW pump house, Make-up water pump 
house and anywhere on steel surfaces in NTPC plant. Supply and 
erection of ‘Scaffolding’ / ‘Manlift or boom lift’ will be in the scope of 
applicant. 
Supply of materials 
Paint shall be supplied in manufacturers original containers with the 
batch no, description of content, specification No., colour, ref no, date of 
manufacture, shelf life, expiry date & pot life. The data sheet, Material 
Test certificate/Certificate of compliance and Material Safety Data 
Sheet(MSDS) shall be supplied for each lot, and to be kept in secure 
custody. 