NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Submersible Pumps for Slurry 
Application 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 31MEC-02(A) 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Submersible Pumps for Slurry Application 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE NR 
B) Technical Criteria of QR:  
1. Vendor should be manufacturer of Submersible Pumps for Slurry Applications. 
2. Vendor should have facility for testing of pumps in their works / third party labs. acceptable for testing to 
NTPC-CQA 
3. Party should have supplied submersible pumps of minimum 5 HP capacity for slurry application during 
last five years from the date of application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C) Other Documents to be submitted: In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants 
applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the date of 
application. Copy of  Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then 
certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof 
of being manufacturer of the required material. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
D) NOTE-1 Similar works means: Supply of Submersible Pumps for Slurry Application. 
 NOTE-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against the 
reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Where PO value is 
composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO 
value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Submersible Pumps for Slurry 
Application 
 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 31MEC-02(A) 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Submersible Pumps for Slurry Application 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE NR 
B) Technical Specifications:  
Submersible Portable Pump with Motor, Water/ Oil Lubricated with all standard accessories for slurry 
application. 
Details of pump construction and internals will be provided in the data sheet such as maximum solid 
content in slurry, specific gravity of slurry, submergence depth, flow, head etc. by the indentor in PR 
depending on the specific requirement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 