NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Alumina Castable Refractory 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 04MEC-02 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Alumina Castable Refractory 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR:  
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of refractory. 
2. The applicant should have supplied refractory to any Thermal Power Plant. 
3. The applicant should have in-house testing facilities for testing refractory as mentioned in the technical 
specifications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C) Other Documents to be submitted: In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants 
applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the date of 
application. Copy of   Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then 
certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof 
of being manufacturer of the required material. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
D) NOTE-1 Similar works means: Supply of Alumina based Castable Refractory to Thermal Power Plants/ 
Steel Plants 
 NOTE-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against the 
reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Where PO value is 
composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO 
value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Alumina Castable Refractory 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 04MEC-02 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Alumina Castable Refractory 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Specifications:  
 
As per attached Annexure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


