 
  NTPC LTD 
      VDC 
 
A) Details of MEG (MATERIAL ENLISTMENT GROUP) 
1.0 MEG No. 10MEG-35 
 
2.0 MEG Description Supply of Sodium Chlorite solution of 25% to 31% 
strength 
 
3.0 Responsibility      
      centre 
VDC 
 
B) 
 
Technical Criteria of QR: 
 
1 The Applicant should be a manufacturer of “Sodium Chlorite Solution”. 
 
OR 
 
2 The applicant should be an authorised representative of Manufacturer of 
“Sodium Chlorite Solution” as per B(1) above. 
 
3 The manufacturer should be either NSF Certified having valid certificate, or 
should produce a Certificate of Analysis, not more than 6 months old, for 
“Sodium Chlorite Solution” from a government / government approved / NABL 
accredited laboratory meeting all the parameters as mentioned in the Technical 
Specification at Annexure A. 
 
 
 
C) 
 
Documents to be uploaded:  
 
1. In support of Qualifying Requirements: 
 
B) 1 Valid factory License / Consent to operate from Pollution Control Board / 
NSIC registration / any other valid document as proof of manufacturing 
 
B) 2 Authorisation document from the manufacturer specifically authorising the 
applicant to participate in this enlistment process. 
 
B) 3 Valid NSF Certification / Certificate of Analysis as detailed at B 3 above. 
 
 
2. In addition to the documents upload required in support of Qualifying 
Requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be 
uploaded by the Applicants applying for enlistment: - 
 
i. Three POs of the highest executed values (Refer to Note-2 of D) below) of 
similar works (Refer to Note-1 of D) below) during last five years from the date 
of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned 
buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against the POs. 
 
ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case 
the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification 
of financial statements from a practicing chartered accountant is to be 
uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to submit the certificate from practicing 
chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of 
the three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial years shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would 
be required from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit 
as on date of application and certificate from the practicing chartered certifying 
the financial parameters are not available. 
 
iii. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS 
license / ISO certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerned excise 
department / any other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of 
the required material. 
 
 
D) Note-1 Similar works means: Supply of “Sodium Chlorite 
Solution” 
 
Note-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of 
similar works executed/supplied against the reference 
PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on date 
of application). Where PO value is composite(i.e. 
including Taxes etc.), the applicant to give item-wise 
break‐up of Composite PO value mentioning Basic 
Value, Taxes etc. 
 
Note-3 Other income shall not be considered for computing 
annual turnover. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure A 
 
Technical Specification for Enlistment Vendor for the Supply of  
Sodium Chlorite Solution 
 
 
 
       1. GENERAL 
 
 
The material shall be a clear liquid free from suspended matter and sediment. 
 
 
       1. REQUIREMENT 
 
 
 
S.No.            Characteristics                                Unit                     Requirement 
 
                                                                                                            
25%                31% 
 
 
b) 1          Active Content, as NaClO2                 % by mass              25                     31% 
 
 
b) 2          pH                                                                                      11-13                 11-13 
 
 
b) 3          Colour                                                                            Colourless to          Light 
                                                                                                       Pale yellow            greenish 
 
 
b) 4          Specific Gravity                                                              1.2-1.35               1.27-1.31 
 
 
b) 5        Odor                                                                              Faint Bleach        Faint Bleach 
 
 
 
b) 6        Sodium Chlorate as NaClO3, Max.          g/Kg of                 40                     40 
                                                                               NaClO2 
 
 
b) 7        Sodium Nitrate (as NaNO3), Max.           g/Kg of                   1                      1 
                                                                               NaClO2 
 
 
b) 8        Arsenic (as As), Max. (of 100%              mg/Kg                    1.1                   1.1 
              NaClO2) 
 
 
b) 9        Cadmium (as Cd), Max. (of 100%           mg/Kg                   1.5                  1.5 
              NaClO2) 
  
 
b) 11      Mercury (as Hg), Max. (of 100%              mg/Kg                  1.1                  1.1 
              NaClO2) 
 
 
b) 12      Nickel (as Ni), Max. (of 100% NaClO2)    mg/Kg                  1.1                  1.1 
 
 
 
b) 13      Lead (as Pb), Max. (of 100% NaClO2)      mg/Kg                  1.1                  1.1 
 
 
 
b) 14      Antimony (as Sb), Max. (of 100%              mg/Kg                 1.1                  1.1 
              NaClO2) 
 
 
b) 15      Selenium (as Se), Max. (of 100%              mg/Kg                  1.1                  1.1 
              NaClO2) 
 
 
 
 
 
1. For each lot tests for Active Content, pH and Specific Gravity may be conducted at site 
while COA from a Govt. or NABL accredited lab may be obtained for the balance 
parameters. 