NTPC LTD 
Vendor Enlistment Cell (VEC)- CPG-1 
Naya Raipur 
 
 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
 
1 
 
CEG No. 
 
TMD-21 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
CEG DESCRIPTION 
 
Mechanical Maintenance (AMC/BMC) of Gas Turbine 
(Turbine and Auxiliaries), Steam Turbine (Turbine and 
Auxiliaries), Waste- heat Recovery Boiler (WHRB) and Off- 
Site area equipment in a Gas Turbine Power plant Excluding 
Major Overhauling of Gas & Steam Turbine. 
 
3 
 
RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
 
CPG1 / VEC 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
AREA OF EXECUTION 
OF WORK 
 
Mechanical maintenance (AMC/BMC) work at Gas Station 
of below areas excluding major OH of Gas & steam turbine. 
1. Gas Turbine and Auxiliaries 
 
2. Steam Turbine and Auxiliaries 
 
 
3. Steam-turbine Condenser & auxiliaries. 
 
4. WHRB and Auxiliaries 
 
 
5.  DM & PT Plant, Softening and Clo2 and 
associated system 
6. Service and Instrument air system. 
 
7. Cooling Tower and associated system. 
 
8. CW/CT and associated system 
 
9.  Fire Fighting System and Raw water 
Pump House equipment. 
 
10. HVAC system 
 
11. Fuel and Gas Handling System. 
 
12. Plant dewatering system. 
 
13. WHRB and Steam turbine insulation work 
 
14.  AC system and Air washer cold insulation 
work 
 
15. Central Workshop 
 
16. Any other area as per instruction of EIC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
1) Preventive, OH & breakdown maintenance of 
following areas including related / necessary minor jobs 
as per detailed scope of work in tender document 
excluding major OH of Gas & steam turbine. 
 
• Gas Turbine and Auxiliaries 
 
• Gas Turbine Air Intake system 
 
• Steam Turbine and  Auxiliaries 
 
• Equipment Cooling Water system 
 
• WHRB and Auxiliaries 
 
• Service and Instrument Air system.  
 
• Lube oil & Control oil systems. 
 
• Cooling Tower and associated system. 
 
• CW PH and associated system 
 
• Fire Fighting System, Raw water system and 
associated system. 
 
• All types of valves & pipeline system 
 
• Liquid and Gas Fuel Handling System. 
 
• Pumping and dewatering systems. 
 
• EOT Crane, fire vehicle and misc. mechanical 
equipment/ work-shop equipment / machines etc. 
 
• Diesel Engine (Black Start Diesel Engine) 
 
 
2) Preventive maintenance and break down maintenance 
of air conditioning system at as per detailed scope of 
work in tender document: 
 
• Central Control Room (CCR) HVAC system 
 
• Unit Local Control Room (LCR) HVAC system 
 
• Switchyard control room HVAC system  
 
• SWAS Room (Air Conditioners and Steam Chillers) 
 
• CO2 Storage Tank Chiller 
3) Preventive maintenance, break down maintenance & 
Overhaul of following vessels and equipments of 
DM/PT/CW Treatment Systems as per detailed scope 
of work in tender document 
 
• DM & PT Plant, Sulphuric Acid dosing 
plant, Softening & Chlorination & ClO2 
systems. 
 
• Pressure Sand Filter, 
 
• Carbon Filter, 
 
• Strong Acid Cation 
 
• Strong Base Anion 
 
• Mixed Bed 
 
• Clarifier 
 
• Auto Back Wash Filter & etc. 
 
• The scope of work also includes chemical 
resistance coating of clarifier’s metallic structure. 
 
4) Overhauling/Servicing / replacement of following 
equipment and system on single point responsibility 
basis as per detailed scope of work in tender document :- 
 
• Boiler LP/HP circulating water pumps, 
BFP, CEP,CW pumps 
 
• Valves (De-superheating/Safety/globe/gate/NRV etc.,) 
 
• Pipe/pipe fittings replacement. 
 
• Hanger/valve greasing, gland replacement 
of WHRB. 
 
• Steam line sliding support inspection 
and rectification. 
 
• WHRB inlet duct inspection and 
attending defects. 
 
• HP/LP Drum inspection. 
 
• Removal & re-fixing insulation/ cladding. 
 
• Casing cutting & re-welding. 
 
• Tube cutting, preparation & replacement. 
 
• Radiography of butt joint. 
 
• Heat treatment of header joint. 
 
• Annual inspection of WHRB as per IBR norms. 
 
• De-super Heater pipe assembly / HP main steam 
line stop check valve replacement. 
 
 
5) Servicing of EOTs/Crane 
 
• General servicing of EOTs/Cranes/Hoist, Wire rope, 
Gearbox, Clamps, etc. 
 
Above list is indicative in nature. Other details of works 
(SOW) as per specific station requirement shall be given in 
Tender documents. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
TECHNICAL 
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENTS 
 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment 
process shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated 
hereunder: 
 
 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
The applicant should have executed the work (s) of 
Mechanical Erection of Gas based Combined Cycle Unit / 
Gas Turbine / Gas Turbine Auxiliaries / Steam Turbine  / 
Steam Turbine Auxiliaries in “Gas/ Coal Based Power 
Plant” within the preceding Five (05) years prior to the 
Last Date of submission of application. 
 
OR 
 
The applicant should have executed the work (s) of 
Mechanical Maintenance of Gas based Combined Cycle Unit 
/ Gas Turbine / WHRB (Waste Heat Recovery Boiler) / Gas 
Turbine Auxiliaries / Steam Turbine / Steam Turbine 
Auxiliaries in “Gas / Coal Based Power Plant” for a period of 
at least One (01) year within the preceding Five (05) years 
prior to the Last Date of submission of application. 
 
OR 
 
The applicant should have executed the work (s) of 
Overhauling of Gas based Combined Cycle Unit / Gas Turbine 
/ WHRB (Waste Heat recovery Boiler) / Gas turbine 
Auxiliaries / Steam Turbine / Steam Turbine Auxiliaries in 
“Gas / Coal Based Power Plant” within the preceding Five (05) 
years prior to the Last Date of submission of application. 
 
 
  
 
 
NOTE FOR TECHNICAL 
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENT 
1. Word “Auxiliaries” mentioned above must 
include at least any two of the equipment group such 
as Boiler  Feed Pumps (BFP), Cooling Water (CW) 
pumps and Cooling Towers, Condensate Extraction 
Pumps (CEP), Air Compressor Systems (IAC/PAC). 
 
2. The word “ Executed" mentioned in technical 
qualifying requirement means that the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract 
is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed 
  
 
DOCUMENT TO BE 
SUBMITTED BY 
VENDOR IN SUPPORT OF 
MEETING QR 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the 
stipulated Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of 
work, terms and conditions, BOQ . POs issued within 
last Five (5) years reckoned as on Last Date of 
submission of application in support of award and copy 
of Client's Completion certificate  / RA Bill / final 
deviation statement from the concerned client /copies of 
invoice to establish successful execution as per QR. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
6 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL 
DOCUMENTS TO 
BE SUBMITTED 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents 
are required to be submitted by the applicants applying for 
enlistment: - 
 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
similar work during previous five years from the Last Date of 
application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA 
Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the concerned client in 
support of successful execution of jobs against each of the 
POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss 
statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the Last Date of application. In case the 
audited documents are not ready / available, then certified 
copy by a registered practicing Cha rtered accountant may be 
submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if 
applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations 
available with the applicant. 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all 
documents/ facilities can be verified/ assessed if required. 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
 
NOTES 
 
1) The word “ Executed" mentioned in technical qualifying 
requirement means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started 
earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
 
2) In case of orders under execution, the value of work 
executed prior to the Last Date of application duly certified 
by the applicant’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
 
3) Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub - 
contractor may also be considered provided the certificate 
issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner 
specifying the scope of work executed by the applicant in 
support of qualifying requirements. 
 
4) Word “Auxiliaries” mentioned above must include at 
least any two of the equipment group such as Boiler Feed 
Pumps (BFP), Cooling Water (CW) pumps and Cooling 
Towers, Condensate Extraction Pumps (CEP), Air 
Compressor Systems (IAC/PAC). 
 
5) “Similar work” means works as mentioned in the QR 
technical criteria. 
 
6) Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant 
has to give break- up of composite PO value mentioning 
basic value, taxes etc. Any separate re- imbursement / 
escalation will not be considered. 
 
All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
 
 
9 
 
 
QUALITY PLAN (IF 
APPLICABLE) 
 
 
 
Not applicable 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
CATEGORY 
OF ENLISTMENT 
 
 
 
 
CATEGORY-1  
 