 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
USSC, VDC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
 
1 
 
CEG No. 
 
TMD-23 
 
2 
 
CEG DESCRIPTION 
 
Residual life assessment (RLA) study of steam turbine of 200 
MW Units & Above 
 
3 
 
RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
 
CPG1 / VEC 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
AREA OF EXECUTION 
OF WORK 
 
1) HP Turbine Rotor and IP Turbine Rotor 
 
2) HP & IP Turbine Casing, Stationary Blades of Turbine, 
 
3) HP/IP Stop & Control Valves. 
 
4) LP Rotor and Casing. 
 
 
 
   
5) High Temperature Bolts & Studs. 
 
6) HP/IP Stop Valves, HP/IP Control Valves 
 
7) High Temperature Bends of Steam Admission Pipe. 
 
Different components of Casings, Rotors, Turbine blades, 
Bearings, Guide blades, Turbine valves, extraction pipes, HP/LP 
bypass valves & other components are required to be 
comprehensively evaluated for remaining life of Steam Turbine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BRIEF SCOPE OF 
WORK for 
CONTRACTOR 
 
HP Turbine Rotor and IP Turbine Rotor: 
 
The HP and IP rotor surfaces shall be cleaned and following 
examination shall be carried out on the rotors. 
 
a) Visual examination for thermal cracks on the surface of the 
rotors. 
 
b) Magnetic particle examination and dye penetration test for the 
complete rotor to be carried out. 
 
c) Visual and dimensional examination of blades with shrouds is 
to be carried out and DP test is to be performed. 
 
d) Checking of rotor grooves and sealing visually and MPI for 
cracks in high temperature zone. All blades of HP/IP rotors to be 
checked for absence of crack by fluorescent particle inspection 
(FPI). 
 
e) Eddy current / Ultrasonic test on disc near the root portion of 
blades is to be carried out. This shall be carried out at different 
locations of rotor to know the material properties. Special attention 
is to be given to inlet zone of the rotor. 
 
f) The Agency shall carry out four samples for blade and 
diaphragm deposit analysis. 
 
g) The Agency shall carry out FMPI (Fluorescent Magnetic 
Particle Inspection) of blades/shroud of rotor in the in-situ 
condition to confirm integrity of blades. 
 
h) Erosion and foreign object damage (FOD) quantification is to 
be done. 
 
i) Replica of HP/ IP rotor is to be taken at different locations. 
Detailed matrix of carrying out replica & another test is to be 
given. 
 
 
 
   
j) Wherever FMPI is conducted, DP test shall also be done. 
 
HP & IP TURBINE CASING, STATIONARY BLADES OF 
TURBINE, HP/IP STOP & CONTROL VALVES. 
 
The stationary blades of HP/IP turbine shall be tested on the same 
pattern as specified for moving blades of HP/IP rotor above. 
 
a) Visual inspection of upper and lower halves of casings for 
cracks etc. 
 
b) Magnetic particle inspection and Dye Penetration test on 
transition zones and welded joints. 
 
c) Visual examination and macro-etching test of weld elements 
of the casing. 
 
d) Ultrasonic examination at transitions of IP Casing, Chests of 
HP/IP Stop/Control Valves for internal defects. 
 
e) Steam admission pipe weld connections. 
 
f) Extraction pipes weld connections with casing in high 
temperature zones. 
 
g) In-situ microstructure examination and hardness test. 
 
h) Replica, hardness on replica spot, MPI & UT on all accessible 
weld joints of mainstream pipe weld connection up-stream of MS, 
HPSV, HRH line weld connection upstream of IPSV & IPCV, 
steam admission pipe weld connection from IV to CV. 
 
i) Ovality, thickness measurement, replica, hardness on replica 
spot, MPI & UT in all accessible weld joints of bends of steam 
admission pipes is also to be done. 
 
LP ROTOR AND CASING 
 
a) Visual examination of the shrouds, blades is to be carried out 
and if needed, DP test to be performed. 
 
b) In-situ microstructure and hardness test to ascertain material 
properties. 
 
c) The inspection and testing in the in-situ condition of LP Rotor 
shall be done. 
 
d) MPI to be carried out on LP turbine moving blades to detect 
defects on the profile as well as in the root portion. 
 
e) The metallographic examination/ testing is to be carried out on 
 
 
 
   
LP turbine rotor blades. 
 
f) Visual examination and die penetration testing of casing 
(including condenser). 
 
HIGH TEMPERATURE BOLTS / STUDS 
 
a) Dimensional elongation. 
 
b) Mechanical properties. 
 
c) Impact properties are to be ascertained. 
 
d) Microstructure examination 
 
e) MPI & UT is to be done. 
 
NOTE: The test at Sl. No. (b), (c) & (d) are to be carried out on 
one of the studs of each HP and IP Turbine only. The tests at (b), 
(c) & (d) are destructive tests. For destructive test, NTPC will 
issue damaged stud to the agency on free of cost and on non- 
returnable basis. 
 
HP/IP STOP VALVES, HP/IP CONTROL VALVES 
 
a) Visual examination for small thermal cracks on the chest 
internal and external surfaces, Steam chest covers, stem & cone, 
fasteners of all the stop and Control valves 
 
b) Dye Penetration Test (DPT) shall be carried out on the 
internal surface of all stop and control valve chests, cones and 
spindles of all the valves 
 
c) Magnetic Particle Inspection shall be carried out on the 
external surfaces of the valve chests and covers, stem/spindles and 
cone and fasteners of all the valves. 
 
d) Hardness Test shall be carried out at various locations on the 
valve components for all the valves. 
 
e) Metallographic examination shall be carried out at various 
locations on the valve components for all the valves. 
 
HIGH TEMP. BENDS OF STEAM ADMISSION 
PIPES: 
 
High temperature bends at inlet to Turbine are to be checked for: - 
 
a) Creep deformations and out of roundness. 
 
b) Checks are to be made visually first and then by magnetic 
 
 
 
   
particle inspection and dye penetration test to look for thermal 
cracks. 
 
c) Check for reduction in wall thickness. 
 
d) Ovality, thickness measurement, replica, hardness on replica, 
spot, MPI & UT on all accessible weld joints of bends of steam 
admission pipes. 
 
The list of the tests is indicative only , therefore any other tests 
required to complete the RLA studies on any of the component as 
per requirement shall be indicated & executed by the bidder. 
 
The work shall be performed in accordance with latest edition of 
following applicable Codes and Standards. The Selected vendor 
shall also be responsible for obtaining all necessary approval / 
clearance required under applicable Codes/ Acts. 
 
For assessment, supervision works, deployment of Level 2 
certified expert by ISNT / ASNT or equivalent in individual NDT 
method is under applicant/vendor’s scope. 
 
All the equipment to be deployed should have valid calibration 
from approved NABL lab. 
 
Detailed SOW & terms & conditions shall be provided with tender 
document. 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENT 
 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment shall 
meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated here under: 
 
Technical Criteria: 
 
The applicant should have executed the work (s) of the Residual 
Life Assessment (RLA) of at least one number of steam Turbine 
with Minimum Unit Size of 200 MW within preceding 05 (five) 
years reckoned as on the Last Date of submission of application. 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
DOCUMENT TO BE 
SUBMITTED BY 
VENDOR IN SUPPORT 
OF MEETING QR 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms 
and conditions, BOQ POs (issued within last Five (5) years 
reckoned as on the Last Date of submission of application in 
support of award and copy of Client's Completion certificate/RA 
Bill/ final deviation statement from the concerned client /copies of 
invoice to establish successful execution as per QR.  
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL 
DOCUMENTS TO BE 
SUBMITTED 
 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the applicants applying for 
enlistment: - 
 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
similar work during previous five years from the Last Date of 
application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final 
Deviation Statement from the concerned client in support of 
successful execution of jobs against each of the POs to be 
submitted. 
 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement 
for the previous three completed financial years reckoned from 
the Last Date of application. In case the audited documents are 
not ready / available, then certified copy by a registered 
practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
 
4. PF and GST registration certificate. 
 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations 
available with the applicant. 
 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all 
documents/ facilities can be verified/ assessed if required. 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
NOTES 
 
1) The word “Executed" mentioned in technical qualifying 
requirement means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started 
earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
 
2) In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed 
prior to the Last Date of application duly certified by the 
applicant’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
 
 
 
   
Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-contractor 
may also be considered provided the certificate issued by main 
contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the scope of 
work executed by the applicant in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
 
3) Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to 
give break-up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, 
taxes etc. Any separate re-imbursement / escalation will not be 
considered. 
 
4) “Similar work” means works as mentioned in the QR 
technical criteria. 
 
5) All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
 
10 
 
 
QUALITY PLAN  
 
Not applicable 
 
11 
 
CATEGORY OF 
ENLISTMENT 
 
CATEGORY-1 
 