NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPARTMENT 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
SECTION-I  
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
NIT NO. 9900307677 
NAME OF 
WORK 
Job contract for Roof Treatment works of TG building stage-I at 
NTPC-Vindhyachal. 
 
1.0 NTPC invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-I: 
Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from Eligible Bidders for aforesaid 
package- as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
Brief Scope of Work: The scope of work under this contract includes:  Job contract 
for Roof Treatment works of TG building stage-I at NTPC-Vindhyachal -as per BOQ, 
detailed scope of work, Specification, Terms and Conditions, drawings and instruction 
of Engineer-in-Charge as detailed in the tender document. 
 
    Project/Station where work to be executed: 
 
NTPC Vindhyachal,  
Vindhyanagar - Waidhan Rd, NTPC,  
Dist, Waidhan, Madhya Pradesh 486885,  
 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Domestic Commercial 
Borrowings/Own sources. 
 
2.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the 
bidding document, which are available for examination and sale at our e 
Procurement Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following 
details & schedule: 
 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group-1, Raipur  
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT  
NIT Date As per e-tender portal  
Document Download Commencement 
Date & Time 
As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
As per e-tender portal 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately.  
Estimated Cost floated for tender  INR 3,24,01,343.88 (Inclusive of  GST
@ 18%) 
INR 2,74,58,766.00(Excluding GST). 
 
Free Issue Material: Nil. 
 
 
Cost of Bidding Documents (Tender 
fee)  
 
INR 2655/-  (INR Two Thousand Six 
Hundred and Fifty Five only) Incl. 
GST 
 
Exemption not allowed 
 
Bid Security/EMD  INR 5,00,000.00 (INR Five Lakhs) to 
be submitted online through e-
procurement portal /Bank 
Guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond 
only.  
 
Exemption not allowed 
 
Contract Period 06 Months 
 
Security Deposit/CPBG 10% of contract value 
 
INTEGRITY PACT NOT APPLICABLE  
Benefit to MSME Not Applicable 
 
This is a WORKS CONTRACT. MSE 
Benefit is   NOT APPLICABLE for 
the Package.  
Pre-Bid Conference Date/TIME  
 
Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Purchase Preference to Local 
Suppliers/Preference to  Make in India 
Class-I local suppliers’ only are 
eligible to participate in this tender, 
as defined in the bidding 
documents/Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ 
revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders 
may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
The local content requirement to 
categorize a Bidder/Supplier as 'Class-I 
local supplier' is minimum 60%. 
 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified above.” 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-
Commercial Proposal”  and  “Price  Proposal”  online 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app),  within  the  bid  submission  date  and time. 
Only Techno-Commercial proposals will be opened on the date and timed mentioned 
above or corrigendum/s(if any) thereof.  
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder 
from https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app 
  
Corrigendum (if any) and extension of date (if any), shall be available on our e-tender 
website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
 
3.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security Deposit  / EMD  in the form as 
stipulated in the Bidding documents in Clause 10 of Bid Data Sheet (BDS)- Sec III  
 
      Additional option for submission of BG directly from the banker is also provided- 
REFER BDS-SECTION III Clause no 7.0 A, for further details. 
 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of 
tender fee is to be done only through online facility on GePNIC portal.  
 
Bid Security/EMD up to Rs. 2,00,000.00 (Rupees TWO Lac only) must be paid 
online through Gepnic portal ONLY. 
 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e-BG 
through NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e-BG, due to some practical difficulties or 
constraints, physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG/ Insurance Surety bond 
as bid security, if opted for, should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to 
reach address for correspondence ( Clause-16 hereunder) before the bid submission 
deadline in physical form and scanned copy of BG/  Insurance Surety must be uploaded 
in the FEE folder in the tendering portal. 
 
 
EMD and Tender fee are not exempted in this tender being a works contract. 
Bidders are advised NOT to upload MSE/other document for availing 
exemption. Bids without adequate Bid Security and Tender fee, as per tender 
provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
 
4.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to 
ITB Clause 11 read in conjunction with relevant provisions in bid data sheet, 
failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: As applicable (Non-Refundable, to be deposited online only) 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: As applicable 
 
c) Integrity Pact:- Not Applicable  (if applicable- REFER BDS-SECTION III FOR
FURTHER DETAILS)
All bids must be accompanied by Tender Fees (Cost of Bidding Documents), Bid 
Security (EMD) and Integrity Pact (if applicable) as per Tender Provisions. 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security as per tender provisions 
shall be rejected by the employer as being non-responsive.  
In case, the bid security is submitted as e-BG/ through Electronic Fund Transfer 
(EFT), bidder to submit the copy of e-BG/proof of e-payment of bid security in the e-
tendering portal. 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS: 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated here under     
5.1 Technical Criteria 
5.1.1 The bidder should have executed “Water proofing” works of at least 7250 
Sqm within the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno-Commercial 
bid opening. 
5.1.2 The bidder should have executed “Civil Maintenance”/ “Civil Repairs”/ 
“Civil construction”/ “Water proofing” works within the preceding seven (7) 
years prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening meeting the following 
criteria:- 
(i) Single order having executed value not less than Rs 220 Lakhs
OR 
(ii) Two orders having executed value not less than Rs 137 Lakhs each.
OR 
(iii) Three orders having executed value not less than Rs 110 Lakhs each.
Notes for Clause above: 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed.  
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date
of Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by 
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements.  
4. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only 
shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide 
the break – up of basic value and taxes.  
 
5.2   Financial Criteria: 
  
5.2.1  The Average Annual Financial Turnover (AATO) of the bidder during preceding 
three (03) consecutive financial years as on the date of Techno - Commercial 
bid opening should not be less than  Rs. 275 Lakhs (Two Crore and Seventy-Five 
Lakhs only). 
 
5.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 
5.2.1 above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the 
stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. No. 5.2.1 above, provided that the Net 
Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial 
year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding 
Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with 
its Techno- Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, 
supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the contract by the bidder in case of award. 
 
5.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(i)Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company. 
 
(ii)A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company. 
 
5.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of 
Techno-commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified 
by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered 
for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that 
the financial results of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 5.2 above: 
 
a) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
b) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 
c) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
6.0  Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess 
the credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ 
subsidiaries / group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances 
warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer.  
 
        The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but 
not be limited to the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted 
reference works in lieu of credentials. A negative determination of such assessment 
of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid 
 
 
7.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 
and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may 
apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
Further it is hereby certified that all the guidelines circulated by NTPC in pursuance 
of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) ‘PPP-MII’ Orders of DPIIT/MoP 
have been complied for the tendered package and NIT. 
 
8.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
 
9.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the 
subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.  
 
10.0 NTPC reserves right to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate 
CORRIGENDUMS published in the portal AT ANY TIME. NTPC also reserves the 
right to extend/change the bidding schedule through publishing necessary 
CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situation demand so AT ANY TIME. The 
corrigendum as decided by NTPC and deemed fit would be published in the portal 
as per provisions therein. This prevails over the relevant provisions else where in   
the bid document. The corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal 
will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed that the information contained 
therein have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders are advised to 
regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendums , if any. 
 
  
11.0 Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is 
considered to be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address 
given below in the presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the 
bid opening. 
 
12.0 The bid document consists of the followings:  
 
SI Name of Documents Nature 
1 Section-I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting 
Tender (NIT) 
Tender Specific 
2 Section-II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  Standard Documents 
3 Section-III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) Tender Specific 
4 Section-IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) Standard Documents 
5 Section-V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) Tender Specific 
6 Section-VI Technical Specifications/Scope of 
Work, Drawings, Quality Plans etc. 
Tender Specific 
7 Section-VII BOQ / Price Bid Tender Specific 
8 Section-VIII Forms and Procedures Standard Documents 
9 Attachment-3 (QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT DATA 
SHEET) 
Tender Specific 
10 Integrity Pact (if applicable) Tender Specific 
 
13.0 IMPORTANT NOTES FOR THE TENDER: 
 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET (ATTACHED separately for the package as 
bid document) is to be filled up properly as per format given for the stipulated 
QR parameters and to be submitted in the bid at appropriate file/folder 
provided for the purpose.  The reference works whose details have been 
declared in Attachment-3 AND / OR in the submitted bid , shall only be 
considered to ascertain the bidder's compliance to the specified 
qualifying Requirement (QR). 
 
Latest provisions for “ Authentication of Veracity of Documents Submitted 
By The Bidder In Support Of Qualifying Requirement ” has been 
incorporated in clause no 6.2 of Bid Data Sheet (Section III- BDS).  
 
Authenticated documents (as applicable- from Independent Statutory Auditor 
of  bidder / or Specified Third-party Inspection Agency (TPIA) ) in line with  
the said provisions to be complied.  
 
Important Note: 
  
BIDDERS, who are required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall 
submit all the documents, in support of Technical Qualification Requirements 
(such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client 
Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from Independent 
Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency 
(TPIA) (For Details Refer BDS Clause 6.2). 
 
Such bidder shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents 
from their Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA, in support of meeting Technical 
QR along with a certificate regarding verification of authenticity of documents as 
per the format placed at Appendix D to Attachment-3 (Undertaking from Statutory 
Auditor) and / or Appendix E  to Attachment-3 (Undertaking from TPIA). All the 
documents submitted by the bidder in support of meeting Technical QR 
shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA. 
 
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, 
which is not certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, 
as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents, may not be 
considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid 
shall be liable for rejection. 
 
NOTE for verification of authenticity of documents:  
1. If any of the declared reference work pertains to the Contract(s) / Works 
executed by Bidder for NTPC or Subsidiary / JV companies of NTPC as a 
Main Contractor in the past then in respect of such Contract(s) / Works, 
Bidder shall not be required to enclose Client Certificate (s) along with its 
bid. 
2. To avoid repetition, the undertaking issued for previous tender (as per 
format) may be submitted by the bidders for similar future tenders subject 
to fulfilment of QR criteria as stipulated in present NIT. 
3. Proprietorship and Partnership Firms are required to furnish 
documents verified from Third Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) only, and 
not from Independent Statutory Auditors 
In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the 
verification and certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any 
of the TPIAs as mentioned at  NTPC tender website 
(https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under “Policy for Document Authentication 
Process in Tenders of NTPC Ltd” tab of Policy Docs. 
 
However, Bidders must verify the accreditation validity of the designated TPIA 
before proceeding to engage them for document certification. 
 
The following website may be referred for contact details and accreditation 
validity of above mentioned TPIAs: 
 
https://nabcb.qci.org.in/inspection-body/ 
 
 
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, 
which is not certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per 
the format enclosed with the bidding documents, shall not be considered verified/ 
certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be liable for rejection. 
 
b) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONED IN Bid Data Sheet 
(Section III- BDS) shall amend and/or supplement the provisions in the 
Instructions to Bidders (Section II- ITB). Wherever there is a conflict, the 
provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
c) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section-V, shall supplement/ 
amend the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section-IV of Standard Bidding 
Document, wherever there is a conflict, the provisions in SCC shall prevail over 
those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
d) UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet 
and P&L Account (wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of 
Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support 
of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document 
Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
 It is mandatory to mention UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) by the 
bidders while submitting audited financial statements, other CA certificates etc. 
w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette notification dt. 02.08.2019. 
 
e) Nil Deviation:  This is a no deviation  tender, which means- No 
Deviation, whatsoever, is permitted by the  employer to any provisions of bidding 
documents. 
 
GTE provision  in the bid submission process in tendering platform is to be 
accepted for no deviation/ full compliance to the bid documents. 
 
Acceptance to the said GTE would confirm that the bidder have accepted all the 
terms and conditions of the bid document 
 
14.0  The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Documents 
may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be required to register on the website. 
  
          First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Users whose 
email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first time 
users not allotted any vendor code by NTPC, should send a copy of the 
registration details to the e-mail address specified in this NIT under Address for 
Communication with following details at least three working days prior to 
Technical Opening Date: 
  
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form(refer Section VIII) duly verified by bank  
 
15.0   Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is 
not permissible. 
 
16.0     Address for Communication 
 
AGM / DGM (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
 
Tel. No.: 9425815891/ 9910072561 
Email:  rhshankarrao@ntpc.co.in / pramodkumar04@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, www.ntpctender.com or 
www.ntpc.co.in 
 
           Registered Office:  
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 06-Aug-2025 10:28 AM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference
Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900307677
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_99095_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online
Bankers
S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf Tender Fee
Details
.pdf EMD Details
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Documents-1
in support of
Meeting QR
.pdf
Documents-2
in support of
Meeting QR
.pdf Other
documents
3 Finance .xls Price Bid
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 2,655]
Tender Fee in ₹ 2,655
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 5,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Job contract for Roof Treatment works of TG building stage-I at NTPC-Vindhyachal.
Work Description Job contract for Roof Treatment works of TG building stage-I at NTPC-Vindhyachal.
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 2,74,58,766 Product Category Civil
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 180 
Location NTPC
Vindhyachal,Vindhyanagar -
Waidhan Rd
Pincode 486885 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region
Head QuartersII

Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 06-Aug-2025 11:00 AM Bid Opening Date 22-Aug-2025 11:00 AM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
06-Aug-2025 11:00 AM Document Download / Sale End
Date
20-Aug-2025 11:00 AM
Clarification Start Date 06-Aug-2025 11:00 AM Clarification End Date 13-Aug-2025 11:00 AM 
Bid Submission Start Date 06-Aug-2025 11:00 AM Bid Submission End Date 20-Aug-2025 11:00 AM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 748.61
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 BOQ BOQ_102292.xls Price Bid 330.00
2 Tender Documents Tender_doc.rar Tender Documents 21543.63
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Expected Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the
PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT
requirements of the Tender. - [ MLC Declaration for Services]
Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules - [ SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC - [ FRAUD PREVENTION] Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC - [
BANNING POLICY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
5.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per tender documents on Restrictions
on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India -
[ LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE]
Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements - [ QR COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents - [ NO DEVIATION
CERTIFICATION] Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. kkarora@ntpc.co.in Keshav Krishana Arora KESHAV KRISHANA ARORA
2. rishikshukla@ntpc.co.in RISHI KUMAR SHUKLA RISHI KUMAR SHUKLA
3. pankajkumar07@ntpc.co.in PANKAJ KUMAR PANKAJ KUMAR
4. pramodkumar04@ntpc.co.in Pramod Kumar PRAMOD KUMAR
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal
places
2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Agree Being works case, it is not applicable
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name PRAMOD KUMARDGM CnM
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By Pramod Kumar
Designation DGM
Created Date 06-Aug-2025 09:52 AM
 