NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
FOR 
 
Administrative building auditorium interior, acoustics, AV, electrical and other 
associated works at NTPC Koldam 
 
NIT No. : 9900308019 
                          
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” from 
eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of the activities and services mentioned in scope of work and as 
per “Technical Specification/BOQ” for “Administrative building auditorium interior, 
acoustics, AV, electrical and other associated works at NTPC Koldam”. 
 
The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, erection, testing and inspection of 
equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, transportation, transit 
insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection including associated civil and 
structural works if any. 
 
NTPC intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Tender Fee Rs.2655/- (Exemption NOT ALLOWED) 
EMD/Bid Security Rs.2,00,000/- (Exemption NOT ALLOWED) 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
MSE Benefit Not Applicable 
 
*The MSME Benefits as mentioned in Bid Data Sheet (BDS), shall be applicable for “Form of 
Contract/Tender Category” type “categorized as "Services" / ”Supply” and not for “Form  of 
Contract/Tender Category” categorized as “Works Contracts”. 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, failing 
which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: As applicable 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid an Earnest 
Money Deposit / Bid Security of amount : as in above table. 
c) Integrity Pact : Not Applicable 
d) Deed of Joint Undertaking (DJU) : Not Applicable 
 
Any bid not accompanied by Tender fee, Integrity pact (if applicable), Deed of joint undertaking (if 
applicable) and Bid security shall be rejected by the Employer as being non-responsive. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a Separate sealed envelope (only 
in case where bid security is submitted through BG) shall be rejected by the employer as being 
non-responsive. In case, the bid Security is submitted  as E-BG / through electronic fund 
transfer (EFT), Bidder to submit the copy of E-BG /proof of e-payment of bid security either 
in separate sealed envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. 
 
Option for Online payment of tender fee is also made available at GePNIC  / e-tender portal. 
Bidders are requested to please avail the facility. 
 
For details, please refer Clause 14 of Section-II Bid Data Sheets (BDS). 
 
Payment of EMD and Tender fee is not exempted in this tender. Bids without adequate Bid 
Security and Tender fee as per tender provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of tender fee is to 
be done only through online facility on GePNIC portal. 
 
Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through online payment of bid security amount applicable for 
this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the tender 
provisions. 
 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank guarantee 
and also ensure that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the address mentioned 
above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
 
5.0 A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide 
GSTIN number with Tender Fee. 
 
 
6.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: 
 
6.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
6.1.1 The bidder should have executed Fixed Interior / Acoustic work of composite nature involving 
Interiors including Supply, Installation, testing and commissioning with associated electrical works 
for Auditorium Theatre/Cinema Hall/Multiplex/ Planetarium /institution/commercial office /Non-residential 
building. 
 
6.1.2 The bidder should have supplied and/or installed and/or tested and/or commissioned Fixed Interior 
and/or Acoustic work within  preceding seven (07) years  reckoned as on the date of  Techno 
commercial bid opening meeting the following criteria:- 
 
(i) Single order having executed value not less than Rs 167 Lakhs. 
OR 
(ii) Two orders having executed value not less than Rs 104 Lakhs each. 
OR 
(iii) Three orders having executed value not less than Rs. 84 Lakhs each. 
 
Notes for 6.1: 
 
1.  For 6.1.1 above, One reference work shall mean the work executed at one  premises/campus 
through a single contract. 
2.  For 6.1.1 above, The reference works executed by the bidder's group company/subsidiary company 
shall not be considered for its qualification. 
3.  For 6.1.2 above, Cost of HVAC System, fire Alarm, fire Protection, fire -fighting System, Interior 
work, associated Electrical Works, Audio- Visual System, Furniture,  Furnishing, Plumbing Work, 
Stage Lighting Work if forms part of the reference work, the same shall also be considered for 
arriving at the cost of the work. 
4.  Bidder can submit same or different reference works in support of their claim to comply qualification 
criteria at 6.1.1 & 6.1.2 above. 
5.  The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria 
specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
6.  In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of  Techno-
Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
7.  Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub -contractor may also be considered provided the 
certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the scope of work executed 
by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
8.  For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be considered. 
In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break –up of basic value and taxes. 
 
 
6.2 Financial Criteria: 
 
6.2.1 The Average Annual Financial Turnover (AATO) of the bidder during preceding three (03) 
consecutive financial years as on the date of Techno -  Commercial bid opening should not be less 
than Rs. 209 Lakhs (Rupees Two Crore and Nine lakhs only) 
 
6.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. 6.2.1 above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. 6.2.1 
above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid- up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno- Commercial bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the bidder in case of award. 
 
6.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity basis, 
the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable 
provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
• Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of 
the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
• A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the Consolidated Annual Report of the company 
 
6.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of Techno -
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit 
as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 6.2: 
 
1.  Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
2.  “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
3.  Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means 
all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves 
credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. 
Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
“Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken /  signed  by  a  Member  of  Institute  of  Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements  (QR),  will  carry  
Unique  Document  Identification  Number  (UDIN) generated  in  line  with  the  Gazette  Notification  
of  Council  of  Institute  of  Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
7 ‘Class-I local suppliers’ / “Class-I local suppliers and Class-II local suppliers’’ only are eligible 
to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents / Public Procurement (Preference 
to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The 
bidders may apprise themselves of the relevan t provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class -I Local Supplier (Minimum Local 
Content equal to or more than 60%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form. 
 
By accepting the MLC provision of GTE, it will be considered that:- 
 
“Bidder is 'Class- I local supplier’  and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in 
Annexure-I to BDS”. 
 
Also supplier is not presently debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violation 
of ‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP -MII Order) dated 
15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion 
of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case of false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration 
and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
8 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
9 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
10 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be 
qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
11 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
12 Pre-bid meeting shall be done through MS teams on 14.08.2025,3:30PM. Link for the meeting is as 
follows: 
 
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-
join/19%3ameeting_NTE1NDUyMWQtOGQzYS00ZDc2LWIzNDAtMTY4YzIyZGQyMDYx%40thr
ead.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%222c631f90-6a65-4bb3-a626-
c0f6f5790a9a%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22ef01d407-f1e4-44a8-b317-96e8c53e07d5%22%7d 
 
13 Address for communication: 
 
DGM / AGM (CPG-1/C&M) 
NTPC Limited, Unified Shared Service Centre, Central Procurement Group-1, 
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, 
Atal Nagar Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515493 / 0771-2515220 
Email: ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in / gauravsaraswat@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: www.gem.gov.in or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
14 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: 40101DL1975GOI007966.  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 