QR for enlistment of vendors for EPC Tenders for development of roof top SPV 
based grid connected power plant for NTPC Coal Mining / NML 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
1.1 The applicant should have designed, supplied, erected/supervised erection and 
commissioned/supervised commissioning of SPV (Solar Photo Voltaic) based grid connected 
power plants.  
Notes for Technical Criteria: 
 
a. The applicant shall submit certificate of successful completion/operation from the Owner. 
In case the applicant  has executed the project for its own group company/special 
purpose vehicle, it shall, in addition, obtain a certificate from DISCOM/ Power 
Procurement Agency for commissioning date. 
 
b. Projects executed by Applicant’s group company, Holding Company or Subsidiary 
Company shall not be considered as Applicant’s experience for meeting the Qualifying 
Requirements. 
 
c. Reference works received by the Applicant from any intermediary organization other 
than owner may also be considered provided a certificate from such owner of plant shall 
be required to be furnished by the Applicant along with its application in support of its 
claim of meeting requirement stipulated above. 
 
d. SPV based Roof -Top and ground mounted solar projects, which are grid connected, 
shall be considered as Applicant’s experience for meeting the Qualifying Requirements. 
 
e. Reference work executed by the Applicant as a sub-contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying 
the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
 
f. In case Solar projects have been executed at multiple locations, under a single GEM 
Contract or any other single PO, the project s executed at multiple locations shall be 
treated as different projects. 
 
g. Wherever, kWp have been referred, this shall be referred in DC side. 
 
2.0  Financial Criteria 
In addition to above, the Applicants will also be required to furnish and upload their 
audited financial statements along with all the annexures in support of following data: 
 
1) Annual Turn Over of last 03 (three) financial years 
 
2)   Net worth of the Applicant as on the last day of the preceding financial year (as 
on the last day of submission of application) should not be less than 75% of the 
Applicant’s paid up share capital, failing which their application shall not be 
considered for enlistment. 
 
In case the Applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of  the Applicant can be 
considered acceptable provided the Applicant further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification: 
1. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Applicant along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
2. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed, 
stating that the  unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of  the 
Consolidated Annual Report of the Holding Company 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the last date 
of submission of application, are  not available, the financial results certified by a  
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. 
In case, an applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. 
Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed, stating 
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the last date of submission of 
application and the Certificate from the practicing  Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available. 
NOTES: 
1) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserves mean all  reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the  extent not adjusted or written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
2) Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
3) “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the  meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue 
 
3.0 Criteria for Enlistment and participation in a Tender (Execution Capability 
based on technical and financial qualifying requirements) 
The eligibility of vendors for participation in a particular tender shall be as per their Execution 
Capability based on Technical Criteria and their average annual turnover of preceding 3 
years arrived on the basis of data submitted at the time of enlistment. 
Definitions of terms for eligibility criteria for a particular tender: 
CET: Cost Estimate of Tender 
CP: Completion period in months 
EC: Execution Capability based on Technical Criteria (as per enlistment) 
ECT: Execution Capability required for a tender (Solar Capacity to be installed in a specific 
tender) 
AATO: Average Annual Turn Over of preceding 3 years as per enlistment 
 
 
 
EC and AATO shall be arrived as under: 
Execution Capability of the vendor to execute similar works shall be calculated based on the 
maximum capacity of the solar project executed by it in one project under a single PO, say 
X kWp, (which shall be in successful operation for at least six months as on date of opening 
of applications) [Max. Capacity] and the total cumulative capacity executed by it, say Y kWp, 
as submitted by vendor in its application against enlistment as defined in the following table 
with an example: 
Max. Capacity X kWp 
Total cumulative capacity 
executed in all POs 
Y kWp 
Execution capability of the 
vendor to execute similar 
works 
Lower of 4-times X and 1.33-times Y 
 
AATO = The average annual turnover of the applicant, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the last date of submission of application  
 
Applicants are required to meet minimum net -worth criteria without which their application 
shall not be considered for enlistment. 
Minimum Net Worth Criteria:  
Net worth of the Applicant as on the last day of the preceding financial year (as on the 
last day of submission of application) should not be less than 100% of the Applicant’s 
paid up share capital.  
In case the Applicant does not satisfy the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of its Holding Companies wherever applicable. The net 
worth of the Applicant and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 
100% of their total paid-up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not 
be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of their 
respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
Based on the EC and AATO arrived above, Applicant shall be eligible for participation 
in a particular tender provided they meet the following criteria: 
 
I. For the tenders having completion period ≤ 1 years 
AATO ≥ CET and EC ≥ ECT 
 
II. For the tenders having completion period > 1 year  
AATO ≥ CET X12/CP and EC ≥ ECT 
 
Notes:  
1. For the tenders having CET up to Rs. 4 Crore,  the requirement of AATO for MSE-
SC/ST & MSE -Women applicants is not required  and they shall be eligible for 
participation for such tenders based on their EC only. However, for the tenders 
having CET more than Rs. 4 Crore, MSE-SC/ST & MSE-Women applicants shall 
be required to meet both AATO & EC criteria.   
 
2. No enlisted applicant is permitted to submit more than one bid in a particular tender. 
 
 
 
List of documents to be uploaded by vendor with application for enlistment 
 
 
Applicants are required to upload following documents (digitally signed by the authorized signatory) 
as asked at different stages while filling the application online- 
 
 
Important Advice: 
 
Please ensure that before starting “online filling of data and uploading documents” all the 
documents to be uploaded from the list (given below) are converted in PDF form and separate PDF 
file of each document are readily available. 
This will help to complete the document uploading without any trouble. 
 
 
 
A ) For USER-ID creation :- Documents to be uploaded as applicable 
SL Details Documents to be uploaded Validity Document 
uploading 
1. Permanent 
Account No (PAN) 
Copy of PAN card  Mandatory 
2. GSTIN GST Registration certificate  Mandatory 
3. GePNIC GePNIC Registration  Mandatory 
4. Manufacturer Proof of manufacturing- statutory document as 
a proof of being manufacturer of the required 
material 
 Mandatory 
5. MSE Registration MSE Registration Certificate (Agencies under 
MSME falling under SC/ST category should 
combine both MSME registration certificate and 
SC/ST certificate in one sheet and scanned  copy 
of the same should be uploaded in the 
application on line. 
 Mandatory if 
applicable 
6. ISO 9001 
Certificate 
ISO 9001 Certificate  Optional 
7. ISO 14000 
Certificate 
ISO 14000 Certificate  Optional 
 
 
B) For type of company: Documents to be uploaded as applicable (Mandatory) 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
 
 
 
 
 
Proprietorship Co. 
 
1. The full name of the individual proprietor, his/her parentage, 
documentary proof of his/her age, permanent address and present 
postal address/ contact details. 
2. Specimen signature of the Proprietor duly attested by a scheduled 
Bank or First Class Magistrate. 
3. A deed of declaration by the Proprietor, that no other individual or 
company has any share in the concern. 
 
 
 
9. 
 
 
 
Partnership Co. 
 
1. Certified photocopy of the Partnership Deed, with up to date 
amendments (if any). 
2. Specimen signature of the Partners duly attested by a scheduled 
Bank or First Class Magistrate. 
3. Registration certificate issued by the Registrar of Firms concerned. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private Limited Co. 
 
1. Certified to be true and up to date amended copy of Memorandum 
and Articles of Association of the Company. 
2. Certificate of incorporation of the Company. 
3. Board resolution authorizing the Executive Director(s) to sign the 
bid / execute contracts/agreements etc. and affix common seal 
thereon in accordance with the provision of Articles of Association 
of the Company. 
OR 
Original Power of Attorney issued by Competent Officer under the 
common seal of the Company, authorizing the person to sign the 
bid/ execute contracts/agreements etc. 
4. Specimen signatures of the Executive Director(s)/ authorized 
person above duly attested by a scheduled Bank or First Class 
Magistrate. 
11. Public Ltd. Co. 
1. Certified to be true copy of Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Company and/or the relevant Statute/Act.
2. Certificate of Incorporation of the company - In case of public 
limited Co. only.
Certificate of Commencement of Business - In case of public limited 
Co. only.
3. Board resolution authorizing the Director(s)/ Executive Director(s) 
to sign the bid/ contracts/ agreements and affix common seal 
thereon in accordance with the provisions of Article of Assoc iation 
of the Company.
OR
Original Power of Attorney issued by Competent Officer under the 
common seal of the Company authorizing the person to sign the 
bid/ execute contracts/ agreements etc.
4. Specimen signature of the Director(s)/ Executive Director(s)/ 
authorized person as in (4) above duly attested by a scheduled Bank 
or First Class Magistrate.
12. Public Sector 
Undertaking 
Self-Certification by authorized person 
13. For annual turnover Copy of Audited Profit & Loss Account / Balance Sheet for last three 
preceding years with Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) 
14. 
For experience 
Copies of Purchase orders along with execution proof like 
invoices, client certificate, stores receipt vouchers, any 
other document etc. indicating corresponding order number, 
dates & material supply value etc., duly certified and verified for 
authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company 
or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
15. 
Other documents as 
asked in qualifying 
requirement 
• Proof of manufacturer
• Manufacturing / Testing facilities details (Self Attested)
• Client certificate for successful operation period (as
applicable)
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-I 
 
NOTICE INVITING APPLICATIONS (NIA) 
 
FOR ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR 
DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED 
POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
 
(Aug`2025) 

NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt of India Enterprise) 
NTPC COAL MINING HQs, RANCHI 
NOTICE INVITING APPLICATIONS (NIA) FOR ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC 
TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER 
PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES 
NIA No.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01  Date: 02.08.2025 
Online applications are invited from eligible Vendors for enlistment of vendors for EPC 
TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER 
PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES  as per Scope of Work,  Qualifying Requirements and 
other Terms & Conditions contained in detailed enlistment documents. 
This Enlistment shall be valid for three years (3 years) subject to terms & conditions. 
The following documents comprise the Enlistment Documents. Applicants are  advised to read 
all the Enlistment Documents carefully prior to submission of their applications: 
i. Section-I: Notice Inviting Application (NIA)
ii. Section-II: Qualifying Requirement and Scope of Work (QR & SOW)
iii. Section-III: Instructions to Applicants (ITA) and Forms, Schedules & Attachments
Vendors may visit https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ for more details and apply online  through 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ [NTPC Coal Mining Vendor Enlistment Portal Tab].  Offline applications 
will not be accepted. 
Important Dates: 
EVENT DATE 
Start date for submitting applications 12/08/2025 
Last date for asking any clarification to the enlistment 
documents 
19/08/2025 
Last date for receipt of completed application for enlistment 
through online mode 
02/09/2025 
Applicants may raise their queries (if any) on or before the above-mentioned date through email 
on following email addresses: 
skvashisth@ntpc.co.in (9650992515) or ksudhakar@ntpc.co.in (9650992016) 
Registered Office: NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New 
Delhi-110003, Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: 
 
1) Those vendors who are not able to submit their applications under this NIA up 
to the last date of submission (as mentioned above/extended deadline, if any) 
due to any reason whatsoever, may avail opportunity to participate in future 
during the next cycle of enlistment process. 
 
2) Coal Mining Business of NTPC Limited is under transfer to NTPC Mining 
Limited (NML). The enlistment for “EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT 
OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT” may also 
be used for floating tenders by NML in future as per requirements. 
 
3) It is expressly stated that enlistment of vendors by other departments in NTPC 
Ltd. shall not automatically make them eligible for future tenders to be invited 
based on subject Enlistment for “EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT” by NTPC 
Coal Mining / NML. 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------End of Section I----------------------- 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-II 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS 
AND 
SCOPE OF WORK 
 
FOR ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR 
DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED 
POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT NO .: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
 
(Aug`2025) 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD. 
SECTION-II: QR & SOW 
1.) REF NO. SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
2.) NAME OF WORK EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED 
GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES 
3.) NAME OF PROJECT / 
STATION 
NTPC/NML COAL MINES 
4.) BRIEF DESCRIPTION AND  
SCOPE OF WORK 
 
[Note: The detail ed 
scope of work & other 
Terms & conditions 
would be specified 
separately in the Tender 
against the specific 
requirements.] 
NTPC invites applications from eligible vendors for enlistment 
of vendors to be used for the future EPC tenders for 
development of roof top SPV based grid connected power plant 
for NTPC/NML coal mines  as per the requirement of specific 
tenders having scope of work as brought out below. The 
enlisted eligible vendors shall be considered for the various 
tenders as per their execution capability defined under 
enlistment document hereafter.  
 
Scope of Work: 
 
EPC Contract for Solar Photo Voltaic (PV) installation on Rooftop 
of various buildings, located at NTPC/NML Coal mining projects / 
R&R Colony  / Mine area or at any other locations. The scope 
shall include Design, Supply, Installation, testing and 
Commissioning of the Project as per standard design and 
specifications. Provision of DG synch to be considered as per site 
requirement. 
 
All the proposals shall be Grid connected or without Grid 
connected, with or without net metering facility, as the case may 
be. 
 
Other Key features are as below: 
 
a. PDI (Pre dispatch Inspected) as per NTPC circular 
b. DC/AC ratio: 1.10:1 
c. Clearances: Vendor Scope 
d. Remote Monitoring system: Required 
e. Technology: (Mono-Perc Solar Panel >= 550Wp), MNRE latest 
amendment applicable 
f. Scope of O&M: Case to case basis 
g. Minimum PR: 75% 
h. minimum CUF: 16.5%-18.5% (based on location) 
 
Detailed scope attached for reference. 
 
 
5.) TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
FOR QUALIFICATION 
The applicant should have designed, supplied, 
erected/supervised erection and commissioned/supervised 
commissioning of SPV (Solar Photo Voltaic) based grid 
connected power plants.  
 
Notes for Technical Qualifying Requirements: 
 
a. The applicant shall submit certificate of successful 
completion/operation from the Owner. In case the 
applicant has executed the project for its own group 
company/special purpose vehicle, it shall, in addition, 
obtain a certificate from DISCOM/ Power Procurement 
Agency for commissioning date. 
 
b. Projects executed by Applicant’s group company, Holding 
Company or Subsidiary Company shall not be considered 
as Applicant’s experience for meeting the Qualifying 
Requirements. 
 
c. Reference works received by the Applicant from any 
intermediary organization other than owner may also be 
considered provided a certificate from such owner of plant 
shall be required to be furnished by the Applicant along 
with its application in support of its claim of meeting 
requirement stipulated above. 
 
d. SPV based Roof -Top and ground mounted solar projects, 
which are grid connected, shall be considered as 
Applicant’s experience for meeting the Qualifying 
Requirements. 
 
e. Reference work executed by the Applicant as a sub -
contractor may also be considered provided the certificate 
issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner 
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub -
contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
 
f. In case Solar projects have been executed at multiple 
locations, under a single GEM Contract or any other single 
PO, the projects executed at multiple locations shall be 
treated as different projects. 
 
g. Wherever, kWp have been referred, this shall be referred in 
DC side. 
 
 
6.) FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
FOR QUALIFICATION 
In addition to above, the Applicants will also be required to 
furnish and upload their audited financial statements  along 
with all the annexures in support of following data: 
 
1) Annual Turn Over of last 03 (three) financial years 
 
2)    Net worth of the Applicant as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year (as on the last day of 
submission of application) should not be less than 
75% of the Applicant’s paid up share capital, failing 
which their application shall not be considered for 
enlistment. 
 
In case the Applicant is not able to furnish its  audited 
financial statements on stand -alone entity basis,  the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of  the 
Applicant can be considered acceptable provided  the 
Applicant further furnishes the following documents  for 
substantiation of its qualification: 
 
1. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the Applicant along with copies of the  
audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding  
Company. 
 
2. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, 
as per the format enclosed, stating that the  unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of  the 
Consolidated Annual Report of the Holding Company 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial 
year as on the last date of submission of application, are not 
available, the financial results certified by a  practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. 
 
 
In case, an applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its  financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall  be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters.  Further, 
a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed, stating that the financial results of  the 
Company are under audit as on the last date of submission of 
application and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is  not 
available. 
 
NOTES: 
 
1) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share 
capital and free reserves. Free reserves mean all  
reserves credited  out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of 
the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance 
of Profit  and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses 
to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be 
reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2) Other income shall not be considered for  computing 
annual turnover. 
 
3) “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company ” shall 
have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies 
Act of India, in vogue. 
 
 
7.) Criteria for Enlistment 
and Participation in a 
Tender  
 
(7.1 Execution capability 
based on  technical 
criteria 
 
and 
 
7.2 Execution capability 
based upon  financial 
criteria) 
The eligibility of vendors for participation in a particular 
tender shall be as per their Execution Capability based on 
Technical Criteria and their average annual turnover of 
preceding 3 years arrived on the basis of data submitted at the 
time of enlistment. 
 
Definitions of terms for eligibility criteria for a particular 
tender: 
 
CET: Cost Estimate of Tender 
CP: Completion period in months 
EC: Execution Capability based on Technical Criteria (as per 
enlistment) 
ECT: Execution Capability  required for a tender  (Solar 
Capacity to be installed in a specific tender) 
AATO: Average Annual Turn Over of preceding 3 years as 
per enlistment 
 
EC and AATO shall be arrived as under:  
 
Execution Capability of the vendor to execute similar works 
shall be calculated based on the maximum capacity of the 
solar project executed by it in one project under a single PO, 
say X kWp, (which shall be in successful operation for at least 
six months as on date of opening of applications) [ Max. 
Capacity] and the total cumulative capacity executed by it, 
say Y kWp, as submitted by vendor in its application against 
enlistment as defined in the following table with an example: 
 
Max. Capacity X kWp 
Total cumulative capacity 
executed in all POs 
Y kWp 
Execution capability of 
the vendor to execute 
similar works 
Lower of 4 -times X and 
1.33-times Y 
 
 
AATO = The average annual turnover of the applicant, in the 
preceding three (3) financial years as on the last date of 
submission of application. 
 
 
Applicants are required to meet minimum net -worth criteria 
without which their application shall not be considered for 
enlistment. 
 
Minimum Net Worth Criteria:  
 
Net worth of the Applicant as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year (as on the last day of submission of application) 
should not be less than 100% of the Applicant’s paid up share 
capital.  
 
In case the Applicant does not satisfy the Net worth criteria on 
its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on 
the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary(ies) of its Holding Companies wherever 
applicable. The net worth of the Applicant and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) 
of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be 
less than 100% of their total paid -up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of 
their respective paid-up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not 
be less than 75% of their respective paid -up share capitals and 
Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the EC and AATO arrived above, vendor shall be 
eligible for participation in a particular tender provided it 
meets the following criteria: 
1) For the tenders having completion period ≤ 1 years 
 
AATO ≥ CET and EC ≥ ECT 
 
2) For the tenders having completion period > 1 year  
AATO ≥ CET X12/CP and EC ≥ ECT 
 
Note:  
1. For the tenders having CET up to Rs. 4 Crore,  the 
requirement of AATO for MSE-SC/ST & MSE-Women 
applicants is not required  and they shall be eligible for 
participation for such tenders based on their EC only. 
However, for the tenders having CET more than  Rs. 4 
Crore, MSE-SC/ST & MSE -Women applicants shall be 
required to meet both AATO & EC criteria. 
2. No enlisted applicant is permitted to submit more than 
one bid in a particular tender. 
 
 
 
Enlistment Category up to Rs. 70 Crore 
 
 
 
Scope of Work 
 
Solar Photo Voltaic ( SPV) installation on Rooftop of various buildings  located at 
NTPC/NML Coal mining projects / R&R Colony / Mine area or at any other locations 
as per NTPC requirement shall be carried out preferably in shadow free area in such 
a way that the generation is maximized on each building suitable for installation of 
Solar PV Power Plants . The scope shall include Design / Engineering, Supply, 
Installation, Testing and Commissioning of the Project as per standard design and 
specifications. Other relevant activities like preliminary visual assessment of roof, 
water arrangements, electricity, security and determining optimal capacity for setting 
up of Solar PV Power Plants, shall be in the scope of the tender. 
 
The project site shall be handed over to the contractor on as is where is basis. Before 
submitting the bid, the contractor should inspect and examine the site and its 
surroundings and should satisfy himself as to the nature of the roof, the quantities and 
nature of work, materials necessary for completion of the work and their availability, 
means of access to site and in gene ral shall himself obtain all necessary information 
as to risks, contingencies and other circumstances which may influence or affect his 
offer. 
 
The final plant capacity shall be as per the detailed engineering and approved design 
of each of the building’s rooftops solar. A permanent MS Staircase/ladder of minimum 
width 1.0 m & finished with primer & weather resistant enamel paint for roof top access 
must be provided for each building where the Roof Top Solar PV  panels are to be 
installed, and roof access is not available. Power cable of suitable size shall be used 
to transmit power from the Solar invertor to the LT Switchgear using cable tray 
arrangement. The laying of all power cable  / control cable shall be neat and in the 
cable tray arrangement.  HDPE pipe shall be used wherever road crossing is to be 
done. The final output of Solar PV shall be integrated in a LT Distribution panel which 
shall be supplied by the Contractor.  Any electrical modification required to make the 
Employer’s switchgear (if available) suitable for Solar PV integration, shall be in the 
scope of contractor.  
 
In various locations, DG sets have been installed as a back-up arrangement. Hence, 
in case wherever DG sets are installed, provision of DG Synchronous device is to be 
considered. 
 
All the proposals shall be Grid connected  or without Grid connected , with or without 
Net metering facility, as the case may be. 
 
PDI (Pre-dispatch Inspection) clause shall be applicable as per NTPC policy. There is 
an indicative list of manufacturers of all the items covered in the Solar package.  
 
DC/AC Ratio: Being a Roof-top Solar Plant, Minimum DC/AC ratio should be 1. 10:1 
to achieve the desired Minimum Annual CUF. CUF shall be measured in AC side. The 
Contractor is free to install high DC Capacity to achieve Minimum Annual CUF. DC/AC 
ratio shall be got approved from NTPC during detailed engineering and generation in 
PV Syst report shall be considered at P90 levels. The PV Syst software 7.4.5 version 
or latest version shall be considered. 
 
All the clearances required, such as MNRE, Chief Electrical Inspector clearance, 
CEA, DGMS, DISCOM etc . (as the case may be)  shall be arranged by Contractor . 
For tenders with net metering, PPA shall be signed between NTPC and DISCOM for 
which the necessary liasioning & paperwork shall be carried out by the contractor on 
behalf of NTPC. 
 
All materials, manpower, scaffolding materials, machinery, tools and tackles, 
transportation & loading/unloading, packaging and unpackaging, safe storage, watch 
and ward, etc. all inclusive, shall be arranged by the contractor within the quoted 
price. Scope shall cover all type s of transportation of materials inside the working 
site and manpower etc. required to execute and complete the work. 
 
The final capacity of the Solar Project may vary during detailed Engineering and the 
variation of - 25% / + 25% shall be allowed on award value. The final plant capacity 
shall be as per the detailed approved engineering design of each of the building’s 
rooftops. If there is an increase in actual capacity by up to 1%  of the estimated 
capacity during detailed engineering, contractor shall execute the additional capacity 
at NO EXTRA COST. However, if the actual capacity is less than the estimated 
capacity pro-rata deduction shall be applicable.  
 
If the actual capacity is less than the estimated capacity or more than 101% of the 
estimated capacity, the variation below the estimated capacity or beyond 101% of the 
estimated capacity shall be adjusted on pro-rata unit rate based on awarded price. 
 
Supply of Mandatory spares shall be done as per the details in Technical Specifications 
of specific tenders. 
 
All the latest Guidelines/ Circulars published by MNRE shall be applicable. 
 
Remote Metering Facility  and Weather Monitoring Facility  is to be provided as per 
Technical Specifications. 
                      
Contractor shall adhere to NTPC’s Gate pass system in the Project site. Medical health  
check-up of all the personnels involved in installation work shall be conducted at site 
locations. Safety Clearance to be sought before start of work from NTPC Safety Dept. 
Relevant permit for Heavy machineries to be taken from NTPC site. 
 
Quality Plan:  
 
The quality plan (Manufacturing Quality Plan and Field Quality Plan) of each item shall 
be prepared by the vendor and shall be put -up for approval in consultation with 
Engineer-In-Charge prior to start of the work. The quality checks of the materials/ 
systems & testing shall be carried out as per specifications/ approved quality plan at 
the works of the manufacturer/ contractor before dispatch of materials to site. SQP for 
both Electrical and Civil shall be applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
Technology:  
 
(Mono-Perc Solar Panel >= 550Wp) 
 
Modules shall comply with MNRE Notification dated 29.04.2024 regarding Approved 
Models and Manufacturers of Solar Photovoltaic Modules (Requirement for 
Compulsory Registration) Order, 2019 and its amendments issued from time to time 
& Inverters are to be purchased from Class-I local supplier. 
O&M: Wherever scope of O&M shall be covered, it shall be for 3 years or as specified 
in the specific tenders. 
 
Minimum PR: 75% 
 
Minimum CUF: 16.5%-18.5% (Based on the region where installation shall be taken 
up, as specified in specific tenders) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
------------------End of Section-II-------------------- 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-III 
INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANTS 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANTS (ITA) 
 
FOR ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR 
DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED 
POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT NO .: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
 
(Aug`2025) 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
S. No. DESCRIPTION  
1.0 DISCLAIMER 
2.0 INTRODUCTION 
3.0 SCOPE OF WORK 
4.0 GENERAL INFORMATION 
5.0 INSTRUCTIONS TO THE  APPLICANTS  
6.0 IMPORTANT DATES 
7.0 EVALUATION  OF APPLICATIONS  FOR ENLISTMENT  
8.0 CONDITION OF CANCELLATION OF ENLISTED AGENCIES 
AND REVIEW OF ENLSITMENT 
9.0 PERIOD OF ENLISTMENT  
10.0 RIGHT TO ACCEPT OR REJECT APPLICATION  
11.0 SELECTION OF ENLISTED VENDORS FOR ISSUING 
TENDER ENQUIRY 
12.0 IMPORTANT NOTES 
FORM APPLICATION  FORM FOR ENLISTMENT  
SCHEDULE-A FORMATS FOR FULFILLING ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 
(TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL) 
SCHEDULE-B FORMATS FOR LETTER OF UNDERTAKING  AND POWER OF 
ATTORNEY 
SCHEDULE-C FORMATS FOR OTHER  INFORMATION  
NTPC LIMITED 
 
1.0 DISCLAIMER 
 
NTPC, reserves the right not to proceed further or to change the process or procedure 
to be applied. It also reserves the right to decline to discuss further with any applicant 
applying for enlistment. 
 
2.0 INTRODUCTION 
 
NTPC Limited is the largest power generating company of India. It was incorporated  in 
the year 1975, with the objective of planning, promoting and organizing an integrated 
development of power stations in India. It has today emerged as an ‘Integrated Power 
Major’, with a significant presence in the entire value chain of power  generation 
business. 
 
NTPC is developing several coal blocks (including Banhardih coal block of PVUNL), for captive 
consumption of the coal. NTPC plans for enlistment of eligible vendors meeting the 
specified eligibility criteria and willing to be associated with NTPC for  the future tenders 
of Construction of Roads for NTPC Coal Mines  as per the requirement of specific  
tenders. 
 
The intent of this enlistment is to identify and enlist prospective vendors / contractors 
who meet Technical Qualifying Requirements and financial parameters as explained in 
Section-II QR & SOW enclosed herewith. This enlistment will be applicable for all NTPC 
Coal Mines. Vendor enlistment process shall be a continuous process with the option to 
add / delete/ modify the list of eligible vendors . L e f t  o u t  v endors, desirous to get 
their names enlisted/ updated in the approved list, can do so in the subsequent cycle  
only. 
 
3.0 SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work of NTPC tenders will generally include the following: 
 
EPC Contract for Solar Photo Voltaic (PV) installation on Rooftop of various buildings, located 
at NTPC/NML Coal mining projects  / R&R Colony  / Mine area or at any other locations. The 
scope shall include Design, Supply, Installation, testing and Commissioning of the Project as per 
standard design and specifications. Provision of DG synch to  be considered as per site 
requirement. 
 
All the proposals shall be Grid connected or without Grid connected, with or without net metering 
facility, as the case may be. 
 
Other Key features are as below: 
 
a. PDI (Pre dispatch Inspected) as per NTPC circular 
b. DC/AC ratio: 1.10:1 
c. Clearances: Vendor Scope 
d. Remote Monitoring system: Required 
e. Technology: (Mono-Perc Solar Panel >= 550Wp), MNRE latest amendment applicable 
f. Scope of O&M: Case to case basis 
g. Minimum PR: 75% 
h. minimum CUF: 16.5%-18.5% (based on location) 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
Quantity Measurement and Payment Criterion will be specified separately in the Tender 
against the specific requirements. 
 
 
4.1 GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
4.2 Applicants are required to submit the information as mentioned below along with their 
supporting documents/certificates in the attached formats as sought in Schedule-A, 
Schedule-B and Schedule-C. 
 
4.3 Throughout these enlistment documents, the term “Eligibility Criteria” and “Qualifying 
Requirements” appearing anywhere in the documents shall have the same meaning and 
are synonymous with each other. The eligibility criteria are available in Section-II QR 
& SOW. 
 
4.4 The information furnished with the application for enlistment must be sufficient  for 
processing and assessment of the applicant. 
 
4.5 All costs incurred by the applicant  for preparing and submitting the application for 
enlistment, in providing clarification or any other expenses whatsoever shall be borne by  
applicants themselves. 
 
5.1 INSTRUCTIONS TO THE  APPLICANTS 
 
5.2 INSTRUCTION FOR APPLYING ONLINE:  Applicants may visit 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ [NTPC Coal Mining Vendor Enlistment Portal Tab]  to apply 
online for this enlistment. Applicants may use the help document available on the 
portal for registration and submission of  application. 
 
5.3 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION FOR  ENLISTMENT: 
 
(a) Applicants shall provide the details of reference works  and relevant documents like 
copies of authentic  work order, client’s completion certificate /Owner certificate as 
applicable, contract  agreement etc. against each of these reference works, shall be 
uploaded by the applicant at the portal. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
The reference works whose details have been provided by the applicant shall only be 
considered for ascertaining the applicant’s compliance to  the specified eligibility criteria. 
 
 
No claim without supporting documents shall be accepted. However, in case the 
reference work pertains to the contract(s)/works executed by applicant for NTPC in the 
past, applicant s are not required to enclose client certificate(s) for such reference   
works. 
 
 
(b) Applicants will also be required to furnish their audited financial statements along with all 
their annexures in support of following data to be provided on enlistment  portal: 
 
1. Annual Turn Over and P&L Account of preceding 03 (three) financial years reckoned 
from the last date of submission of application. 
 
2. Net worth of preceding Financial Year reckoned from the last date of submission of 
application. 
 
 
(c) No change or substitution in respect of reference works, as originally submitted by the 
applicants on portal, by new/additional reference works for meeting the specified eligibility 
criteria shall be permitted. As such, evaluation of applications will be carried out on the 
basis of details of reference works originally submitted by the applicant on the  portal. 
Further, if required, during evaluation any query/clarification shall only be sought in 
respect of the reference works submitted originally on the  portal. 
(d) The Applicant shall submit digitally signed ‘Power of Attorney’ duly authorized for the 
person signing & submitting the application on behalf of the applicant and the ‘Letter of 
Undertaking’ by the person authorized in POA. The aforesaid ‘Power of Attorney’ and 
‘Letter of Undertaking’ shall be submitted online along with the  application. 
 
(e) Documents to be submitted 
 
Applicants to ensure that before starting “online filling of data and uploading documents” 
all the documents to be uploaded as per the list (given below) are converted in PDF 
format and separate PDF file of each document are readily available with them. This will 
help to complete the document uploading without any trouble. The following documents 
are to be uploaded in the portal: 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
1. Certificate of registration 
2. Permanent Account No (PAN) Copy of PAN  card 
3. GST Registration - GST registration certificate 
4. UDYAM certificate. 
5. ISO certificate- ISO9000, ISO 14000, ISO18500, SA8000. Copy of relevant Certificate 
to be uploaded, if available. 
6. EFT Form. 
7. PF number - Certificate of PF number 
8. In respect of financial criteria for qualification –Audited annual reports i.e. Profit & Loss 
Account & Balance Sheet for three (3) years as required in the qualifying  requirement 
as sought in QR & SOW (Section-II). 
9. In respect of technical criteria for qualification - Copies of Purchase orders/ work orders 
as mentioned in the eligibility criteria, execution proof like execution  certificate/ 
completion certificate/ certified RA bills / any other document etc. indicating PO No, 
execution value, period of contract etc. 
10. Date of incorporation - to be mentioned and certificate of incorporation to be  uploaded. 
11. Change of legal status of organization: Details to be filled and  uploaded. 
12. Type of company: Proprietorship, partnership etc. 
13. Power of attorney and Letter of Attorney. 
14. GeM Seller ID 
 
 
(f) Signing of the Application 
 
The application for enlistment along with all supporting documents/  annexure/ 
attachments shall be certified by a person duly authorized to sign and submit the 
application for enlistment. The authorization shall be supported by a Power of Attorney as 
mentioned above and shall be submitted online along with application.  
 
(g) No physical document submission is required for this enlistment process.  Any 
application received through a medium other than through https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ [NTPC 
Coal Mining Vendor Enlistment Portal Tab] shall not be entertained. 
 
 
(h) The employer at its discretion may seek any clarification and/or documentary  evidence 
only for the reference works submitted in the portal. However, no change or substitution 
of the reference works by new/additional works for conforming to the specified  eligibility 
criteria shall be sought, offered or permitted. 
 
5.4 All costs incurred by applicant for preparing and submitting the application for enlistment, 
in providing clarification or any other expenses whatsoever shall be borne by applicants 
themselves. 
5.5 This enlistment document is not transferable. 
5.6 The language for submission of application for enlistment shall be English. The units of 
measurement shall be metric systems of measures, unless otherwise specified   
elsewhere. 
5.7 Financial data should be given in Indian rupees  only. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
5.8 The enclosed ‘Schedules’ shall be filled in completely and wherever not applicable 
it should be written as “Not Applicable”. Applicants should furnish the  required 
information and desist from writing “shall be furnished later” or submitting the 
blank form. Such incomplete applications may run the risk of rejection. 
 
5.9 ADDENDA/CORRIGENDA/ AMENDMENTS TO ENLISTMENT  DOCUMENTS 
Addenda/Corrigenda/Amendment to the enlistment documents may be posted on the 
website prior to the last date notified for receipt of applications for  enlistment. 
Prospective applicants can view the same once they are uploaded on the website. The 
Applicants shall suitably take into consideration such Addenda /  Corrigenda/ 
Amendment while submitting their application for enlistment. The amendment will be 
binding on the applicants, and it will be assumed that the information contained 
therein has been taken into account by the applicants in their   application. 
In order to provide reasonable time to prospective applicants for taking an Addenda/ 
Corrigenda/ Amendment into account for preparing their application for enlistment,  the 
employer may, at its discretion, extend the last date notified for receipt of applications.  
 
5.10 CLARIFICATION TO ENLISTMENT  DOCUMENT 
A prospective applicant requiring any clarification to the enlistment document may notify 
the employer through e-mail on email addresses indicated in Notice Inviting application 
not later than the specified date. Any request for clarification received after the last 
date as mentioned in NIA or amendments (if any) will not be entertained.  
 
5.11 CLARIFICATION/QUERY AFTER OPENING OF  APPLICATIONS 
During the period when the applications are under consideration, applicants are advised 
to refrain from contacting by any means, the employer and /or his 
employees/representatives on matters related to the applications under consideration. 
Any effort made by an applicant to influence the employer’s processing of  applications 
or enlistment may result in rejection of the applicant’s application for  enlistment. 
 
During the evaluation of the applications, the employer may, at its discretion, ask the 
applicant for clarifications to the application including documentary evidence  pertaining 
to the reference works declared at portal for the purpose of meeting eligibility criteria 
specified or any other document mentioned in the enlistment document. The request for 
clarification and the response shall be in writing and no change in the substance of the 
application including substitution of reference works in the application by new/additional 
works for conforming to eligibility criteria shall be sought, offered or permitted. 
 
 
5.12 MODIFICATION, SUBSTITUTION AND WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION  FOR 
ENLISTMENT 
 
No application shall be modified or substituted by the applicant after the last date of 
submission of application. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
5.13 Any information / data furnished by the applicant found to be incorrect or false  or 
misleading at any point of time would render him liable to be debarred from  the 
enlistment / tendering / taking up of work in NTPC. 
5.14 NTPC reserves the right to cross check and confirm the information details furnished by 
the applicant. 
 
5.15 The applicant shall be a single entity (Company/ proprietorship firm/ partnership 
firm). 
 
5.16 Bottom Note on each page of the formats enclosed in the enlistment documents should 
not be removed by the applicants. 
 
5.17 The applicant shall strictly adhere to the fraud prevention/ debarment policy of  NTPC 
displayed on its tender website http://www.ntpctender.com and shall  immediately 
apprise the employer about any fraud or suspected fraud as soon as it comes to their 
notice. (A certificate to this effect shall be furnished by the applicant along with his 
application as per the format enclosed). 
 
6.0 IMPORTANT DATES 
 
The important dates w.r.t to this enlistment are mentioned in the Notice  Inviting 
Application (NIA). Applicants are advised to make sure that the submission of application 
is completed on or before the last date of submission of application.  
7.0 EVALUATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR  ENLISTMENT 
 
7.1 Applicants are required to furnish the details of past experience as per format enclosed in 
the documents and enclose relevant documents like copies of authentic work order, 
completion certificate, agreements etc. supporting the details/data provided in the format. 
No claims without supporting documents shall be accepted in this regard. However, if 
any of the reference work pertains to the Contract(s)/Works executed by Applicant for 
NTPC in the past then in respect of such Contract(s)/Works , the Applicant shall not be 
required to enclose Client Certificate(s) along  with its bid. 
 
7.2 For the purpose of enlistment, applicants shall be evaluated on the basis of 
criteria mentioned in the Qualifying Requirements. The reference works whose 
details have been provided by the applicant shall only be considered  for 
ascertaining the applicant’s compliance to the specified eligibility criteria. 
 
Evaluation of Execution Capability (EC) will be carried out on the basis of details as 
per above reference works. For the purpose of establishing execution capability (based 
on technical criteria) of the vendor/applicant, the reference works declared by the 
applicant shall be scrutinized. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
7.3 All Applicants who are required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the 
documents, in support of Technical Criteria (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ 
Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from 
Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third -Party Inspection Agency 
(TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Applicants can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Auditor 
certifying the data required for meeting the Technical Criteria.  
 
Such Applicants shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their 
Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical Criteria along with a 
certificate regarding verification of authenticity of documents as per the format placed at 
Appendix I to Attachment-2-Schedule-A (Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ or Appendix 
II to Attachment -2-Schedule-A (Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the 
Applicants in support of meeting Technical Criteria shall be digitally signed by the Statutory 
Auditor and/ or specified TPIA. 
 
7.4 In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through  TPIA, the verification and 
certification of authenticity of documents is  acceptable from any of the TPIAs as mentioned at 
NTPC tender website (https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under “Policy for Document Authentication  
Process in Tenders of NTPC Ltd” tab. However, Bidders must verify the  accreditation validity of 
the designated TPIA before proceeding to engage them for document certification.: 
 
The following website may be referred for contact details and accreditation validity of above 
mentioned TPIAs: 
 
https://nabcb.qci.org.in/inspection-body/ 
 
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not 
certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and 
the bid shall be liable for rejection. 
 
The Applicants shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials in support of Technical 
Criteria verified & certified by their Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs 
pertaining to third party verification and certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall 
be borne by the Applicants. Employer shall have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the 
same and shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute between the Applicants and TPIA and/ or 
Statutory Auditor. 
 
7.5 The documents in support of the financial data (net-worth & turnover etc.) shall be 
scrutinized and financial data of all the vendors who are meeting the  qualifying 
requirements shall be maintained along with the execution capability and utilized during 
selection for issuance of specific tender enquiry. 
 
7.6 Reference works executed by the applicant, as a member of joint Venture /  Consortium 
/ Associate can also be considered provided: 
 
a) The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures / 
consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint  venture 
agreement / consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the 
applicant's scope of work and break-up of quantities executed by them as 
individual contribution in the joint Venture / Consortium / Associate,  duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority/Owner, meet the relevant provisions of 
eligibility criteria. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
b) In case the reference work has been executed by the applicant in an integrated 
joint venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break-up of quantities 
between the partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture 
Agreement, then for establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria  of 
Section-II QR& SOW, the credit of executed quantities can be claimed by the 
applicant in the ratio of applicant's share in the integrated joint  Venture 
Agreement, provided the applicant establishes that it regularly undertakes 
works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint 
venture shall be duly authenticated by the Project  Authority/owner. 
 
 
7.7 Even though an applicant may satisfy the above requirements, he would be liable  to 
disqualification if he has made misleading or false representation or  deliberately 
suppress the information in the forms, statements and enclosures required in the 
application for enlistment. 
 
The employer reserves the right to assess the capabilities and capacity of the applicant 
to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the 
overall interest of the employer. NTPC shall evaluate the credentials uploaded by the 
applicant to determine as to whether technical aspects and financial requirements are in 
accordance with the Qualifying Requirements (QR)/Eligibility Criteria. Subsequently,  at 
the sole discretion of NTPC, physical assessment of establishment (s)/ verification of 
document (s)/ may also be carried out, if felt necessary by NTPC. Vendor should not 
have any objection to such physical assessment / verification   etc. 
 
7.8 The decision of NTPC LIMITED in this regard shall be final and binding. NTPC shall 
evaluate only those cases which are complete in all respects and which are 
prima-facie  found to be qualified based on the responses  given.  
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
7.9 Applicants who shall meet the eligibility criteria (as defined in QR & SOW-Section-II) shall 
be recommended for enlistment. 
 
7.10 After approval, certificate of enlistment shall also be issued by NTPC to the approved 
vendors. 
 
7.11 Subsequent to  enlistment, only the enlisted agencies, based upon their  established 
execution capability (through this enlistment process) shall be invited to submit the bids 
in respect of specific enquiry of projects of NTPC for the subject works till  the time 
enlistment is valid. 
 
8.0 CONDITION OF CANCELLATION OF ENLISTED AGENCIES AND REVIEW  OF 
ENLSITMENT 
 
8.1 The Enlistment of a n  agency m a y  be cancelled by NTPC in case of poor 
performance, abandoning of allotted work, delay in completion of work, bankruptcy and 
activities detrimental to the interest of NTPC. The decision of NTPC in this regard shall 
be final and binding on the agency. 
 
8.2 In case of change of name of the enlisted vendor without change of constitution/partners,  
the same shall be intimated along with proof of such change to NTPC immediately but 
in no case later than thirty (30) days from the date of such change, failing which the 
enlistment of agency/contractor by that name may be  cancelled. 
8.3 The performance of the contractors shall be reviewed periodically based on the feedback 
given by the Head of Coal Mines/representative/EIC. 
 
8.4 If any of the enlisted vendor is found to have been involved in any fraudulent activities 
like submission of fake credentials/ documents/ information as defined in NTPC Fraud 
Prevention Policy/ Debarment Policy during pre-award/ award/ execution stage, action in 
line with the said policy shall be taken. 
 
 
8.5 Yearly Review & Updating of vendor enlistment: 
 
After the completion of initial vendor enlistment of subject work, the enlistment  process 
shall be re-opened after a period of 1 Year and shall be kept open further so that all 
the new vendors who could not participate in the enlistment process can participate and 
submit their application for enlistment at any time. 
 
New vendors, if found qualified in line with the enlistment procedure mentioned  herein, 
shall be recommended for inclusion in the enlisted vendor list. These new vendors will 
also be enlisted for a period of 3 years from the date of their enlistment.  
 
Already enlisted vendors: Vendor enlisted through this enlistment process, 
need not apply again in subsequent cycles. However, if an already enlisted 
vendor desires to update his execution capability and/or turnover, he may apply 
in subsequent cycles of enlistment. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
Already enlisted vendors should apply, at least 1 cycle before the expiry of  their 
enlistment, with their revised credentials to be enlisted for further period. In such case, 
evaluation shall be done based on the revised credentials as applicable from the date 
of such application. 
 
If the revised credentials are found to be in order, their enlistment shall be upgraded  / extended 
accordingly in line with the procedure defined in the enlistment process.  
 
Vendors who fail to apply at least 1 cycle before the expiry period of their enlistment, 
shall not be considered eligible for issue of tender enquiry upon expiry of their enlistment 
period automatically. Such vendors need to apply afresh for enlistment.  
 
 
9.0 PERIOD OF ENLISTMENT 
 
This enlistment shall be valid for a period of Three (03) years from the date of 
Enlistment. 
 
10.0 RIGHT TO  ACCEPT OR REJECT  APPLICATION 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this enlistment document, NTPC reserves the 
right to accept or reject any application and annul the process and reject all applications 
at any time without any liability or any obligation for such acceptance, rejection or 
annulment without assigning any reasons whatsoever. 
 
10.1 Applicant may note that mere submission of application for enlistment and/or submission  of 
additional information do not automatically entitle him to claim for enlistment. 
 
11.0 SELECTION OF ENLISTED VENDORS FOR ISSUING TENDER  ENQUIRY: 
 
Enlistment will be done based on their qualification against eligibility criteria  mentioned 
in Section-II QR & SOW. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
12.0 IMPORTANT NOTES: 
 
1. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the employer reserves the right to assess  
the capabilities and capacity of the applicant / its collaborators/ associates / 
subsidiaries / group companies to perform the contract, should the 
circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the employer. 
 
2. Subsequent to enlistment, only the enlisted agencies may be allowed to submit the 
bids in respect of specific enquiry for works covered under the scope of this 
enlistment till the time enlistment is valid. 
 
3. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all applications or cancel/withdraw the  
‘Notice Inviting Applications’ without assigning any reasons whatsoever and in 
such case no applicant or intending applicant shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. NTPC shall also have the right to verify any information/document furnished 
by the  applicant/ agency/company/ firm and  inspect the works carried out  by the 
applicant/ agency/ company/firm, if so required. 
 
4. Applicants who respond within the due  date with application as mentioned above 
against this advertisement will only be considered for  enlistment. 
 
5. Transfer of enlistment documents purchased by one intending applicant to another 
is   not permissible. 
 
6. Subcontracting Provision for Works Packages: 
 
The enlisted contractor shall only be given the award based on evaluation of the 
bids. Generally subcontracting of the work will not be permitted.  If any subcontractor 
is found executing the contract awarded to the enlisted contractor without approval 
of NTPC, action against the enlisted contractor will be  taken as per NTPC Debarment 
Policy. 
 
 
7. DEBARMENT POLICY 
 
The debarment policy of NTPC available on our website  https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ shall 
be applicable. 
 
 
8. FRAUD PREVENTION  POLICY 
 
Provisions of Fraud Prevention policy shall apply for the enlistments being done. The 
applicant shall strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention policy of NTPC which is  available 
on our website https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ the contract. 
 
 
9. INTEGRITY PACT 
 
Applicants are required to unconditionally accept the “Integrity Pact (IP)” as per  Employer`s 
format failing which their applications shall be outrightly rejected. It may also be noted that the 
Integrity Pact so submitted shall form an integral part of the Contract, if awarded in future. 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
10. Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India 
 
Any      Bidder (including      its      Collaborator/ Associate/ DJU      Partner/ JV partner/ 
Consortium Member/  Assignee, wherever applicable) from a country which shares a land 
border with India will be eligible to apply for enlistment only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as per relevant guidelines of Govt. of India. 
 
11. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy: 
 
The Applicant and its employees along with its Associate/ Collaborator/ Sub-Contractors / Sub-
Vendors / Consultants / Service Providers and all  other persons associated with Employer 
during enlistment process and in the performance of Contract shall  strictly adhere to 
Employer’s Anti -Bribery and Anti -Corruption (ABAC) Policy  displayed on website 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ under section ‘policy docs’. 
 
The Applicant and its employees along with its Associate/ Collaborator/ Sub-Contractors / Sub-
Vendors / Consultants / Service  Providers and all other persons associated with Employer 
during enlistment process and in the performance of Contract shall comply with all applicable 
laws and  regulations relating to anti -corruption and anti -bribery and the ABAC Policy  of 
Employer. 
 
12. CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 
An applicant shall not have conflict of interest with other applicants. Such conflict of interest 
can lead to anti -competitive practices to the detriment of  Employer’s interests. An applicant 
may be considered to have a conflict of  interest with one or more parties in the enlistment 
process, if: 
 
a) they directly or indirectly control, or are controlled by or are under  common control of 
another entity; or 
 
b) they have the same legal representative/agent for purposes of their bids; or 
 
c) they have relationship with each other, directly or through common third  party(ies), that 
puts them in a position to have access to information about or influence on the bid of another 
Bidder; or 
 
d) Bidder and/or any of its allied entity(ies), which directly or indirectly  control(s) or is(are) 
controlled by or is(are) under common control of another  entity, has(ve) participated as a 
consultant in the preparation of the design or  technical specifications of the contract that is 
the subject of the tender; or 
 
e) Bidder participates in more than one bid in this bidding process. 
 
For the purposes of this clause the term ‘control’ shall have the following meaning: 
 
“Control” shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to  control the 
management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or  persons acting individually or in 
concert, directly or indirectly, including by  virtue of their shareholding or management rights 
or shareholders’ agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner. 
 
Note: If two or more CPSEs/State PSEs participate in a tender, they will  not be deemed to 
fall under the 'Conflict of Interest' provisions solely  because they are under common control 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
of Government of India / State Government. 
 
Applicants submitting their applications shall be deemed to have accepted their compliance to 
“Conflict of Interest”. Submission of Application shall be considered as their confirmation that 
they have  read and understood the Clause regarding “Conflict of Interest” and their 
application is in compliance to this clause. 
 
In case it is established that an applicant has provided any false information in  pursuance of 
the aforesaid Clause, then its application shall be rejected. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORMS, SCHEDULES AND  ATTACHMENTS 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
APPLICATION FORM 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML 
COAL MINES 
 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
Dear Sir, 
1.0  Having examined the Enlistment document no. SSC-CMHQ-314668-
SPV-01 including    subsequent    amendments and 
clarifications ,if  any  (insert numbers),  the  receipt  of  which   is 
hereby acknowledged, we the undersigned, furnish our details in  full 
conformity with said Enlistment  Document. 
 
2.1 Attachments to the Application  form: 
In line with the requirements  of  the  Enlistment  documents,  we 
enclose herewith the following Attachments to the Application  for 
Enlistment: 
 
(a) General Particulars /Details of The Applicant. 
(b) A power of attorney duly digitally signed digitally indicating that 
the person(s) signing the application has/have the authority to sign 
the application and thus the application is binding upon us.  The 
Power of Attorney to be submitted to NTPC in line with  the 
provisions mentioned in Enlistment document. Similarly, letter of 
undertaking as per NTPC format to be  submitted online. 
 
(c) Attachment- 2 & 3 of Schedule A: The documentary  evidences  
establishing eligibility criteria stipulated in the  enlistment 
documents. The qualification data has been furnished as per  your 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
formats enclosed in  Schedules  of  the  Enlistment  documents. 
 
 
(d) Details of fatal accidents occurred during the last three years at 
works executed by us as per your  format  enclosed in Schedule-C 
of the enlistment documents. 
 
 
(e) Confirmation that if any information / data furnished with  our 
application is found incorrect, false or misleading, it would  render 
us liable to be debarred from enlistment / tendering / taking up work 
in NTPC as per your format enclosed in Schedule -C of  the 
enlistment documents 
 
3.0     We  declare   that   we   have   studied   the enlistment  documents  and 
we are making  this  application   with   a   stipulation   that  subsequent 
to enlistment, only the enlisted agencies may be invited to submit  the 
bids in respect of specific enquiry for subject  work by NTPC till the time 
Enlistment is valid. 
 
4.0  We  understand  that  mere  submission  of  filled  in  application  for 
enlistment and / or submission of additional information do  not 
automatically entitle us to claim for qualification / enlistment. Further, we 
understand that NTPC at its sole discretion may re -invite  or  modify  or 
annul  the  process  without  assigning  reason   whatsoever. 
 
5.0  We, hereby, declare that only the persons or firms interested in  this 
application as principals  are  named  here  and  that   no  other    persons 
or  firms  other  than  those mentioned  herein  have  any  interest    in 
this  application  or in  the  contract  to  be entered  into,  if awarded 
at the time of project specific  enquiry  after enlistment,  that   this 
application  is  made  without  any connection  with  any   other  person, 
firm or party likewise submitting  an  application,  is in  all  respects  for 
and in good faith, without collusion or  fraud. 
 
6.0  We also agree to upload all the relevant documents pertaining to our 
application for subject enlistment in the name of our company failing 
which our application for  enlistment is liable to be  rejected. 
 
Thanking you,  
Yours 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
faithfully, 
Date:     
Place:  Name of Authorized  Person 
 
 
 
 
Designation     
 
Business Address: 
 
 
 
Fax No.:    
 
Phone No.:    
 
Note :  Applicants may note that prescribed proforma has been enclosed for 
Power of Attorney. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
(Attachment-1 Part 1)        
SCHEDULE –A 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR  
DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID 
CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES  
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
GENERAL PARTICULARS /DETAILS OF THE  APPLICANT 
1. Applicant’s Name & Address  : 
 
a) Name :   
b) Address :   
c) Email ID :   
d) Vendor code in NTPC: ……………. (if available) 
e)  GePNIC id: ………………………………………………….  
f)   GeM Seller ID: ……………………………  
 
2. Name & Designation of the Authorized  Signatory 
who has been given Power of Attorney to sign  and 
submit the Application on behalf   of  the Applicant :   
 
3. Contact Details of the Authorized Signatory  :   
 
a) Landline No. :   
b) Mobile No. :   
c) Email ID :   
 
4.. Name  &  Designation  of  Alternate Contact  person : 
a) Landline No.:   
b) Mobile No. :   
c) Email ID :   
 
 
Date :    
           Name & Sign. of authorized person   
 
Place :    
 
           Designation   
NTPC LIMITED 
 
Attachment –1 Part 2 
SCHEDULE –A 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP 
SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES  
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
Applicant’s Name & Address  :    
Declaration regarding Ownership/Partnership cum submission of single  Application and no common  
controlling shareholders or ownership or cross holding directly and/or indirectly in any manner whatsoever 
with any other participating applicant and the details of Foreign Principals of Indian Bidders: 
 
To, 
NTPC   Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
1. We have not submitted application in conjunction with any other applicant  or  have not submitted  
application in any other name, either directly or  indirectly. 
 
2. We hereby declare details of Directors/ Shareholders of Company’s/Partnership Firm/ Proprietorship Firm 
as under: 
 
S. No Name of Director / Shareholder / Partner / Proprietor  
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
 
 
If it is found at any stage of enlistment or during currency of the Contract (if awarded), that we have 
any common controlling shareholders or ownership, directly or indirectly, with any  other participating 
vendor(s)/applicant, then our enlistment or Contract (if awarded) shall be  cancelled / terminated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
Details of Foreign Principals (if applicable): 
 
We hereby declare the details of our foreign principals or associates as below: 
 
S. No Name of foreign principals or 
associates 
Address 
1   
2   
3   
4   
5   
6   
 
 
 
1. We fully understand that NTPC would deal directly and exclusively with us for the subject enlistment / 
Contract (if awarded) and no agency arrangements are acceptable to  NTPC. 
 
2. We, hereby, undertake that we shall deal directly with NTPC and have not engaged any Agent to deal 
with NTPC for the subject  tender. 
 
 
 
       Date: Signature) ................................................... 
 
(Printed Name) ............................................ 
 
      Place: (Designation)   ............................................... 
 
(Seal) ............................................ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
(Attachment-2) 
SCHEDULE –A 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV 
BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES  
 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC -CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
Applicant’s Name & Address  :    
 
 
To, 
 
NTPC   Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
 
1.1.1 In order to satisfy the requirements for TECHNICAL  CRITERIA  of 
Eligibility stipulated at in QR & SOW (Section-II), We declare that We 
have executed the following works, as per details given below:  
 
SN Description Reference work 1 Reference work 2 Reference work 3 
A Name of Work    
1 Client detail    
 1. Site Name where 
the work was 
done: 
   
 2. Client name:    
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
SN Description Reference work 1 Reference work 1 Reference work 1 
 3. Address:    
 4. Contact Person    
 5. Phone    
 6. Fax:    
 7. E-mail address    
2 Contract Number & Date 
of award 
   
3a Value of Contract 
 
 
Executed Capacity (in 
k Wp ) as defined in QR & 
SOW (Section-II) 
INR………….. 
 
 
………….. k Wp 
INR………….. 
 
 
………….. k Wp 
INR………….. 
 
 
………….. k Wp 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
Period 
 
From……….. 
To…………… 
 
From……….. 
To…………… 
 
 
From……….. 
To………… 
5 Whether Documentary 
evidence/certificate in 
support of above data 
enclosed? (including but 
not limited to) 
PO/Work Order copy: 
Yes/No 
 
Detailed BOQ: Yes/No 
 
Technical Specifications: 
Yes/No 
PO/Work Order copy: 
Yes/No 
 
Detailed BOQ: Yes/No 
 
Technical Specifications: 
Yes/No 
PO/Work Order copy: 
Yes/No 
 
Detailed BOQ: Yes/No 
 
Technical Specifications 
Yes/No 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
SN Description Reference work 1 Reference work 1 Reference work 1 
  Completion 
certificate/Execution 
certificate: Yes/No 
Completion 
certificate/Execution 
certificate: Yes/No 
Completion 
certificate/Execution 
certificate: Yes/No 
 
Note: (i) Certificate from clients in support of meeting above  requirements 
with Scope of Work is enclosed at  Annexure   
 
 
 
 
Date :    
Name of authorized  person   
 
Place :    
 
Designation   
 
 
Any information/date furnished by the applicant found to be incorrect or false or 
misleading at any point of time would render him liable to be debarred from the 
Enlistment/tendering /taking up of work in NTPC. 
 
Note: 
 
1) Applicants may use the format for furnishing details of other works. 
2) On VDC Portal, PO-1 Tab is for reference work  for arriving at maximum 
capacity of the solar project executed by the vendor in one project under a 
single PO (X), which shall be in successful operation for at least six months as on 
date of opening of applications. 
3) In PO -2 & PO -3 Tabs, applicants may upload documents pertaining to 
reference works for arriving at the total cumulative capacity executed by it (Y ). 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
(Attachment-3) 
SCHEDULE-A 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT 
OF ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR 
NTPC/NML COAL MINES  
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
Applicant’s Name & Address :……….. 
………………………………………………. 
 
Details pertaining to financial criteria for the subject enlistment 
 
We confirm  that  our average annual turnover in  the  preceding  three  (3) financial 
years as on last date notified for receipt of application for enlistment is  as following.   In 
support  of above,  we are enclosing audited financial  statements. 
 
 
Sl.No Financial Year Amount in Rs. 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4. Average Annual Turnover for  the preceding  three 
(3) Financial Years as on last date of submission 
of application 
 
5. We have enclosed Audited financial statements for 
the last 3 financial years at 
Annexure ……. to 
Attachment-3 
6. Since we are not able to furnish our audited 
financial statements, on stand alone  entity  basis,  
we are submitting the following documents  for 
substantiation of our Qualification : 
(a) Copies of  unaudited  unconsolidated 
financial statements of the  applicant 
alongwith copies of the audited consolidated 
financial statements of our Holding Company 
for  the  last  3  years   enclosed   at 
Annexure to this Attachment 3. 
(b) Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding 
company stating that the  unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements  form 
part of the consolidated  Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company, is 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 enclosed as per the format at Appendix-A to 
this Attachment-3. 
Enclosed  at Annexure 
7. Audited results for the last financial year as on  the YES */NO*  
last date of submisison of application is  enclosed   
 
In case not enclosed, financial results certified by 
a practicing chartered accountant enclosed 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed   at 
 
 
Annexure 
In case financial results certified by a practicing   
chartered accountant not enclosed, then Audited  
financial statements for FY ………… also YES */NO*  
enclosed. Enclosed  at Annexure 
Further,  a  Certificate  from  the  CEO/CFO  of the 
Applicant   stating   that   the   Financial   results  of 
company are  under  audit as on the last  date   of 
submisison of application  and the certificate  from 
the  practicing  chartered  accountant  certifying  the 
financial  parameters  is  not  available,  is enclosed 
at Annexure …. as per the format at Appendix-C 
to this Attachment-3. 
 
a) Since we do not satisfy the Financial Criteria stipulated in Section-II on 
our Own, we give below the following details of our Holding Company : 
 
1. Name and Address of the Holding Company: 
… … … … … … … . 
 
2. Turnover of the Holding Company with following details: 
 
Sl.No Financial Year Amount in INR 
a)   
b)   
c)   
d) Average Annual Turnover for the preceding three 
(3) Financial Years as on last date of submission 
of application: 
 
e) We have enclosed audited Financial Statements 
for the preceding three (3) Financial years 
Annexure to 
Attachment-3 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
Sl. 
No 
Description As on last 
day of the 
preceding 
financial 
year 
3. Paid-up Share Capital of the Holding Company 
 
 
4. Net Worth of the Holding Company 
 
5. %age of Net worth to Paid -up Share Capital of  the 
Holding Company 
 
 
6. A Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, 
supported by Board Resolution of the Holding  Company, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support 
for execution of the  contract  by  the  applicant  in  case 
of award is  enclosed  as  per  the  format  at Appendix- 
B to this Attachment-3. A power of attorney of the 
person signing on behalf of holding company is also 
enclosed  at Annexure to this Attachment-3. 
7. Documentary evidence like Annual Report/Audited 
financial statements together with relevant schedules for 
the preceding financial year/ certification of  financial 
statements from a practicing Chartered Accountant etc. 
in respect of holding company in support  of above is 
enclosed   at Annexure to this Attachment-3. 
 
 
8. Audited results for the last financial year as on the  last 
date of submission of application is enclosed 
In case not enclosed, financial results certified by  a 
practicing chartered accountant enclosed 
 
 
In case financial results certified by a practicing chartered 
accountant not enclosed, then Audited  financial 
statements for FY -------------- also enclosed. 
 
 
Further, a Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the  Holding 
Company stating that the Financial results of company 
are under audit as on the last date of submission of 
application and the certificate from the  practicing 
chartered  accountant  certifying  the  financial parameters 
YES */NO* 
 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed at 
Annexure 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed at 
Annexure 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
Sl. 
No 
Description As on last 
day of the 
preceding 
financial 
year 
is not available, is enclosed at Annexure …… as  per the 
format at Appendix-C to this Attachment-3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date : 
 
Place : 
 
(Signature).......................................... 
 
(Printed Name of Authorised  person
Having Power of Attorney) 
 
(Designation)...................................... 
 
 
(Company Seal)...................................  
 
 
 
To satisfy the NETWORTH requirements specified in Section-II QR &SOW, 
We give below the following details: 
 
a) We hereby confirm that net worth of our company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is not less than 100% of its paid -up share capital. 
The Details are as under: 
 
Sl. No Description As on  last 
day of  the 
preceding 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
  financial 
year 
1. Paid-up Share  Capital  
2. Net Worth  
3. %age of Net worth to Paid-up Share  Capital  
4. Documentary evidence like Audited financial statements 
for  the  preceding  financial year*  in support  of    above 
is   enclosed   at Annexure to this Attachment-3. 
 
5. Since we are not able to furnish our audited financial 
statements, on stand alone entity basis, we are submitting 
the following documents for substantiation of  our 
Qualification : 
(a) Copies of unaudited unconsolidated  financial 
statements of the applicant alongwith copies of the 
audited consolidated financial statements of our 
Holding Company for the last 3 years enclosed at 
Annexure to this Attachment 3. 
(b) Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the  Holding 
company stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Holding Company, is 
enclosed as per the format at Appendix-A to this 
Attachment-3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enclosed at 
Annexure 
6. Audited results for the last financial year as on the the last YES */NO* 
date of submission of application  enclosed  
 
 
In case not enclosed, financial results certified by a 
practicing chartered accountant enclosed 
 
 
YES */NO* 
 
In case financial results certified by a practicing chartered 
accountant not enclosed, then Audited financial 
Enclosed at 
Annexure 
statements for FY ……………. also enclosed.  
 YES */NO* 
Further, a Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Applicant 
stating  that the  Financial  results  of  company are  under 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 audit as on the the last date of submission of application 
certificate from the practicing chartered  accountant 
certifying the financial is not available, is  enclosed 
Annexure as per the format at Appendix-C to   this 
Attachment-3. 
Enclosed at 
Annexure 
 
b) Since we do not satisfy the Financial Criteria stipulated at Section-II, on our Own, 
we give below the following details of our Holding Company  : 
 
1. Name and Address of the Holding Company: … … … … … … …  … 
 
 
Sl. 
No 
Description As  on  last  day  of the 
preceding financial 
year 
 
2. Paid-up Share Capital of the Holding Company 
 
3. Net Worth of the Holding Company 
 
4. %age of Net worth to Paid-up Share Capital of the 
Holding Company 
 
5. We have enclosed audited Financial  Statements  for 
the preceding three (3) financial years 
 
 
 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed at Annexure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Audited results for the last financial year as on the last date of submission of application opening enclosed 
 
In case not enclosed, financial results certified by a 
practicing chartered accountant enclosed 
 
 
In case financial results certified by a practicing 
chartered accountant not enclosed, then Audited 
financial statements for FY ………….. also  enclosed. 
Further, a Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding 
Company stating that the Financial results of company 
are under audit as on the date of submission of 
application and the certificate from the practicing 
chartered  accountant  certifying  the  financial  is    not 
YES */NO* 
 
 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed at Annexure 
 
 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed at Annexure 
NTPC LIMITED 
Sl. 
No 
Description As  on  last  day  of  the 
preceding 
year 
financial 
 
 
available,   is   enclosed Annexure as   per  the 
format at Appendix-C to this Attachment-3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c) Since we do not satisfy the Financial Criteria stipulated in Section -II QR & SOW, 
on our Own, we give below the following details of our subsidiary or  subsidiaries 
of Holding Company : 
 
1. Name and Address of our subsidiary or subsidiary(ies) of Holding 
Company: 
 
 
Sl. 
No 
Description As  on  last  day  of the 
preceding financial 
year 
 
2. Paid-up Share Capital 
 
3. Net Worth 
 
4. %age of Net worth to Paid-up Share Capital 
NTPC LIMITED 
Sl. 
No 
Description As  on  last  day  of  the 
preceding 
year 
financial 
 
 
5. We have enclosed audited Financial Statements for  
the preceding three (3) Financial years 
 
YES */NO* 
 
 
 
6. Audited results for the last financial year as on the last date of submission of application is enclosed 
 
In case not enclosed, financial results certified by a 
practicing chartered accountant enclosed 
 
 
In case financial results certified by a practicing 
chartered accountant not enclosed, then Audited 
financial statements for FY ………….. also  enclosed. 
Further, a Certificate from the CEO/CFO of 
subsidiaries of the Holding Company stating that the 
Financial results of company are under audit as on the 
last date of submission of application and the 
certificate from the practicing chartered accountant 
certifying the financial is not available, is enclosed 
Annexure   as per  the format  at  Appendix-C  to 
this Attachment-3. 
 
YES */NO* 
 
 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed   at  Annexure 
 
 
 
YES */NO* 
Enclosed   at  Annexure 
 
We further confirm that notwithstanding anything stated above, the  Employer 
reserves the right to undertake- a physical assessment of the capacity and 
capabilities including financial capacity and capability of the Applicant /  his 
Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) / Subsidiary(ies) / Group Company(ies) to perform 
the Contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free 
reserve. Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits 
and share premium account but does not include reserves credited 
out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of  depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted 
or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of  India. 
 
 
 
 
 
Date : 
(Signature).......................................... 
 
Place :                                             (Printed Name of  Authorised person 
 
 
 
(Designation)......................... 
having Power of 
attorney................. 
 
 
 
(Company 
Seal)................................... 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
(Appendix-I to Attachment 3) 
 
 
PROFORMA OF CERTIFICATE FROM THE CEO/CFO OF THE  HOLDING 
COMPANY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
1.0    I, Mr. ............................... (CEO of the Company / CFO of the Company)* declare that M/s. .................................... (Name of 
the Holding Company) is the Holding Company of M/s. ..................................... (Name of the Applicant). 
 
2.0   I hereby confirm and undertake that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements submitted in respect of the applicant as 
part of the NIA reference no. ............................... dated ...........................have been considered for the purposes  of  the 
finalisation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company as part of the Annual  Reports. 
 
3.0   I further, certify that the figures in the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements are true and correct and same have been 
duly reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements and / or Annual Report of the Holding  Company. 
 
Yours faithfully 
(Signature) 
Date : (Name    &   Designation).......................................... 
 
Place   : (Name of the Holding Company) ........................... 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
(Seal of Holding Company) ..................................... 
 
Note : *Strike off whichever is not applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
(Appendix-IB to Attachment 3) 
 
 
PROFORMA OF LETTER OF UNDERTAKING 
 
(TO BE FURNISHED ON NON-JUDICIAL STAMP PAPER OF APPROPRIATE VALUE) 
 
 
Ref. : Date : 
 
To 
Contract 
Services NTPC 
Limited Noida - 
201301 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
1.0  We, M/s................................ declare that we are the holding company of M/s ............................... (Name of the Applicant) 
and have controlling interest therein. 
 
M/s. .................................. (Name of the Applicant) proposes to submit the application for the 
…………………………………………under NIA reference no. ........................... dated ..................... and have sought  
financial strength and support from us for meeting the stipulated Financial Qualifying Requirement as per Section -II of QR 
&  SOW. 
 
2.0 We hereby undertake that we hereby pledge our unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the execution of the work 
under the scope of this enlistment to M/s. ................................. (Name of the applicant), in case they are awarded the 
Contract for the said package, at the end of the bidding process. We further agree that this undertaking shall be without 
prejudice to the various liabilities that M/s .................................. (Name of applicant) would be required to undertake in 
terms of the Contract including the Performance Security as well as other obligations of the  Applicant/Contractor. 
3.0     This undertaking is  irrevocable and unconditional, and shall  remain in force till the successful execution and 
performance of the entire contract and/or till it is discharged by Employer. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
4.0 We are herewith enclosing a copy of the Board Resolution in support of this  undertaking. 
 
 
 
 
Yours faithfully 
 
 
 
(Signature of Authorised 
Signatory on behalf of the 
Holding Company) 
 
(Name   &   Designation)..........................................  
 
(Name of the Holding Company)..................................... 
 
 
 
Witness : 
 
 
(1)  .................................. 
 
(2) .................................. 
 
Date: 
 
Place: 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
(Appendix-II to Attachment 3) 
 
 
(to be filled if applicable) 
 
 
PROFORMA OF CERTIFICATE FROM THE CEO/CFO OF THE   COMPANY 
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
Dear Sirs, 
 
1.0    I, Mr. ............................... (CEO of the Company / CFO of the Company)* confirm and undertake that the Financial results of 
the company for the preceding financial year to be submitted in respect of the Applicant as part of the enlistment reference no. 
SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 are under audit as on the last date of application opening for 
…………………………………………………..  and the certificate from the practicing chartered accountant certifying the 
financial parameters for the preceding financial year is not available. 
Yours faithfully 
(Signature) 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
Date : (Name    &   Designation).......................................... 
 
Place  : Name of the Company) ........................... 
 
Note : *Strike off whichever is not applicable. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE B 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
(Appendix-1) 
SCHEDULE - B 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF 
TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES  
 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
 
PROFORMA OF LETTER OF UNDERTAKING 
(TO BE FURNISHED ON NON-JUDICIAL STAMP PAPER OF APPROPRIATE VALUE) 
 
Ref.:    
Date :   
 
Subject:  Enlistment NIA NO: / 
 
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
1. I ,…………………………………… , son / Daughter / wife  of……………..residing at…………………….  is authorized 
and empowered to make proposal for vendor  enlistment on behalf of  M/s…………………………………..  with 
registered office at……………………… , a (proprietorship / partnership / company registered under company act) @. 
Details of (Proprietor/ Partner/ Director) @of the organizations are as  below:- 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
Name Son/ Daughter/ Wife 
of 
Residential Address Mention Proprietor/ 
Partner / Director 
(as applicable) 
    
    
    
    
 
2. The Power of attorney as applicable issued by the competent authority in my company/ organization, authorizing me to 
sign & upload enlistment documents, is attached  herewith. 
 
 
3. I/ We have read and examined and understood the requirements of NIA, specific qualifying requirement etc. I/ We agree 
to accept all terms and conditions. 
 
4. I/We understand that statement made by us is initially subject to verification with the documentary evidence by NTPC  for 
which relevant documentary evidence are uploaded/ being uploaded by us. I/ We also understand that in absence of 
relevant documentary evidence NTPC shall be at full liberty to ignore the furnished  information. 
 
5. I/ We also confirm that we shall furnish additional clarification / additional document, if any, desired by NTPC at any time 
(during / after enlistment). 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
6. I/ We also confirm that all furnished information & uploaded documents are correct and genuine to the best of our 
knowledge. I/ We also confirm that we don’t have any objection for any physical verification & assessment and in obtaining 
confirmation from any relevant authorities/ company regarding any / all information furnished by  us. 
 
7. I/ We also confirm that we shall update NTPC for any change in status / furnished information appropriately within the 
currency of enlistment. If any furnished information / uploaded document found to be incorrect/ forged during the  process 
of enlistment or after enlistment, NTPC may take appropriate action as deemed fit as per Fraud Prevention Policy/ Integrity 
Pact of NTPC including but not limited to Debarment of Business Dealing / Cancellation of enlistment  etc. 
 
8. I/ We agree to abide by and fulfill all the term conditions and provisions of the Vendor Enlistment Certificate, if issued in 
our favors. 
 
9. This undertaking is for consideration of NTPC LTD for considering our documents for enlistment of contractors against 
subject NIA. 
 
 
Witness 
Signature: 
 
Signature 
 
Name of Executants    
 
Name Designation    
 
Address Postal Address of executants    
 
Date-    
 
 
Note: 
 
1. Executant must possess valid power of attorney for submission of request for vendor  enlistment. 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
Appendix 2 
SCHEDULE - B 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF TOP SPV 
BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL MINES  
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
 “POWER OF ATTORNEY” (POA) 
Ref.: Date: --.--. ---- 
 
I / We. .  (Name/s of  the competent authority of  the  company to  issue POA)  do hereby appoint  and authorize  Mr.  / Ms.(Name    & 
designation  of  authorized  person)  who  is  presently  employed  with  our  company  M/S (Name  of  the  company  &  address)  and 
whose signature is given below, is authorized on behalf of the company to do all or any of the act or things, to sign & upload the 
application documents against enlistment for ………………………………………………………………………………….  for all Coal 
Mines of NTPC and to sign and execute other documents / agreements 
/ participating in meeting / responding to queries / submission of information / documents and shall be binding on the company for all 
the rights and obligations in relation to and in pursuant to the NIA issued by M/s NTPC  Ltd. 
In short, he / she is fully authorized to do all, each and every act requisite for the said purpose concerning the company and the 
company hereby agrees to confirm and ratify all and every act or thing or any documents / agreements executed by our said attorney 
within the scope of the authority hereby conferred on him and the same shall be binding on the company. 
 
Signature: 
Name:     
 
(Signature and name of authorized signatory being given Power of Attorney)  
Designation: Place:  Date:   
 
Signature of Executants/s: 
 
 
(Signature and name of the competent authority of the company to issue  POA) 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
Name:    
 
Designation:  Seal of firm / Company 
 
Witness-1 Witness-2 
 
Name: .  Name: ....   
Address:  Address:    
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE C 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
(Attachment-A) 
SCHEDULE –C 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
ROOF TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML 
COAL MINES 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
Details of Accidents 
 
 
Applicant’s Name & Address  :    
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
We declare that the details of the fatal accidents that took place during the last 3 years at various 
construction projects for works executed by us are as given below: 
 
 
S.N. Name and Address 
of Project where 
accident took place 
Nature of 
work 
Nature of 
accident 
No. of 
Fatal 
Accidents 
No. of 
Fatalities 
No. of persons 
working at  the 
project site 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  Name of Authorised person 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
Place:  Designation   
 
Note: 1. Applicants to include accidents occurred involving his employees, workers, associates, 
subcontractors and sub agency’s employees and workers giving the date/period    of 
Occurrence of such accident. 
2. Applicant may use additional sheets, if required. 
 
 
Any information / data furnished by the applicant found to be incorrect or false or 
misleading at any point of time would render him liable to be debarred from the Enlistment 
/ tendering / taking up of work in NTPC 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
(Attachment-B) 
SCHEDULE –C 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF 
TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL 
MINES 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
  Declaration on Banning/Blacklisting 
 
Applicant’s Name & Address  :    
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
We hereby declare the following: 
 
1) We have read the contents of the Banning Policy of NTPC attached with this Application Document and 
agree to abide by this  policy.  Further, in terms of requirement under Banning policy we hereby declare 
the following: 
a) We have not been Banned/Blacklisted as  on  date  of  submission  of  application  for  subject 
enlistment by Ministry of Power or Government of India. 
 
b) We have not employed any public servant dismissed/removed or person convicted for an offence 
involving corruption or abetment of such  offences. 
 
c) Our Director(s)/Owner(s)/Proprietor/Partner(s) have not been convicted by any court of  law  for 
offences involving corrupt and fraudulent practices including moral turpitude in relation to business 
dealings with Government of India or NTPC or NTPC’s group companies during the last five years. 
 
2) We further declare as under: that if at any  point  subsequent  to  Enlistment,  the  declarations  given 
above are found to be incorrect, NTPC Limited shall have the full right to terminate the Enlistment 
and take any action as per applicable laws 
 
 
Date:  Name of Authorised person 
 
 
 
Place:  Designation   
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any information / data furnished by the applicant found to be incorrect or false or 
misleading at any point of time would render him liable to be debarred from the Enlistment 
/ tendering / taking up of work in NTPC 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
(Attachment-C) 
SCHEDULE –C 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF 
TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL 
MINES 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
Fraud Prevention policy 
 
 
Applicant’s Name & Address  :    
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
 
Ladies and/or Gentleman 
 
We have read the contents of the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC displayed on its tender 
website http://www.ntpctender.com and undertake that we along with our associate/ collaborator/ 
subcontractors/sub-vendors/consultants/service providers shall strictly abide by the provisions of 
the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
 
 
 
Date:  Name      of      Authorised      person 
 
 
 
Place:  Designation   
 
 
 
 
Any information / data furnished by the applicant found to be incorrect or false or 
misleading at any point of time would render him liable to be debarred from the Enlistment 
/ tendering / taking up of work in NTPC 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
(Attachment-D) 
SCHEDULE –C 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF 
TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL 
MINES 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
Applicant’s Name & Address  :    
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M) 
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
 
We hereby confirm that if any information /data furnished by us in Schedule-A, Schedule-B and 
Schedule-C along with Application for Enlistment is found to be incorrect or false or misleading at 
any point of time, it would render us liable to be debarred from the Enlistment/tendering/taking  up 
of work in NTPC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  Name      of      Authorised      person 
 
 
 
Place:  Designation   
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
(Attachment-E) 
SCHEDULE –C 
 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF 
TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL 
MINES 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
PROFORMA OF LETTER OF UNDERTAKING 
 
(TO BE STAMPED AS PER INDIAN STAMP ACT) 
 
[To be executed by the Holding Company of Applicant Supported by Board Resolution and 
submitted by the Applicant along with the application, in case financial support is being  extended 
by the Holding Company to the Applicant] 
 
 
To, 
 
NTPC  Ltd. 
Additional General Manager (C&M)  
SSC-CMHQ 
Ranchi 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
1.0 We, M/s.................. declare that we are the Holding Company of M/s................... (Name of the 
Applicant) and have controlling interest therein. 
 
M/s................................... (Name of the  Applicant) proposes to submit the application for the 
subject enlistment under reference no ……………………………………………………… and have sought 
financial strength and support from us for meeting the stipulated Financial Qualifying 
Requirement. 
 
2.0    We hereby undertake that we hereby pledge our unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of any Contract for the subject works to M/s. ................................. (Name of  the 
Applicant), in case they are awarded the Contract for the said package. We further agree that this 
undertaking shall be without prejudice to the various liabilities that M/s .................................. (Name 
of Applicant) would be required to undertake in terms of the Contract including the Performance 
Security as well as other obligations of the Applicant/Contractor. 
 
3.0 This  undertaking  is  irrevocable  and  unconditional,  and  shall  remain  in  force  till  the      successful 
execution  and  performance  of  the  entire Contract  and/or till it  is discharged  by  NTPC. 
 
4.0 We are herewith enclosing a copy of the Board Resolution in support of this   undertaking. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
(Signature of Authorized  Signatory) 
on behalf of the Holding  Company) (Name   
&  Designation)..............................  
(Name of the Holding Company)........... 
(Seal of Holding Company)...................... 
 
Witness : 
 
(1) ................................................ 
 
(2) ............................................... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
 
(Attachment-F)  
SCHEDULE –C 
 
 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR EPC TENDERS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF ROOF 
TOP SPV BASED GRID CONNECTED POWER PLANT FOR NTPC/NML COAL 
MINES 
 
DOCUMENT NO.: SSC-CMHQ-314668-SPV-01 
 
 
INTEGRITY PACT 
(Signed Integrity Pact Attached Separately)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-----------------------End of document--------------------- 