Salient Technical Features 
Salient Technical Features for EPC Package for Development of 80 MW/ 
320 MWh BESS Capacity by NGEL at KSEB Substations at  Pothencode 
and Sreekantapuram in Kerala 
 
“Salient Technical Features of the equipment/ systems/ services covered in IFB No.               
NGEL-CS-5833-004(BESS)-9 are mentioned below. These Salient Technical Features 
are mentioned only to facilitate the prospective bidders to prima-facie understand the 
requirements under the tender and shall not in any way limit or alter the scope of work 
and technical features/specification of equipment/ systems/ services covered in the 
Bidding Documents. Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical 
features/specification of equipment/ systems/ services, contained in the Bidding 
Document shall be final and binding.” 
 
 
Name of the Project 
EPC Package for Development of 80 MW  320 MWh 
BESS Capacity by NGEL at KSEB Substations 
at Pothencode and Sreekantapuram in Kerala. 
Project capacity 
Project is divided into two blocks as follows: 
Block-1: 40 MW / 160 MWhr at KSEB Pothencode  
Block-2: 40 MW / 160 MWhr at KSEB Sreekantapuram. 
BESS Service Life 
Designed service life of BESS shall be of 12 years for daily 
single cycle operation. O&M of 12 years is included the 
scope of this project.  
Degradation As mentioned in Technical Specifications 
 
 Determination of basic design criteria for the Battery Energy Storage System ( BESS). 
 The BESS shall comprise of BESS containers with Battery Racks, Battery 
Management System (BMS), Energy Management System (EMS) and SCADA, 
Power Conversion System (PCS), Protection system, Power Transformers, Power 
Evacuation system, Communication System, HT & LT System, Auxiliary power 
system, Monitoring & Control system, Fire Fighting, remote control and monitoring, 
any other associated materials and services necessary for trouble free operation and 
maintenance of the BESS. 
 Comprehensive Operation and Maintenance (O&M) works of BESS system for entire 
design life of 12 years from the date of commissioning.  