 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF 
INTEREST (EOI)  
Fresh Hiring of Transit Camp at Kota 
 
      
 
  

 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR HIRING OF TRANSIT CAMP AT K O T A ,  R A J A S T H A N  
SPECIFICATIONS FOR SPACE FOR TRANSIT CAMP: 
1. The property being offered should be situated preferably within appx. 5 Kilometer range from 
Kota Railway station. 
2. The property being offered should have a space of 5-6 BHK (with attached toilets) and the 
built-up area requirement of approx. 4000 – 4500 Sq Ft. The property offered should preferably 
not exceed the first floor. In case the offered property comprises more than Ground plus One (G+1) 
floors, provision for a functional lift must be available. 
3. In addition to the above, parking space for 3-4 vehicles should be available. 
4. The lessor shall furnish the property offered at his own cost with the following furniture 
items/ electrical/electronic appliances: 
a. Geyser and Exhaust Fan in all washrooms with western toilet. 
b. All rooms to be equipped with ceiling fans, LED lights/tube lights and 01 fully automatic washing 
machine. 
c. 01 Kitchen with modular furniture, chimney, 01 microwave oven, 01 juicer mixer grinder, 01 RO 
system. 
d. All windows must be provided with new quality curtains along with curtain/blind fittings of good 
quality.  
e. The property should be equipped with an inverter power backup system  capable of providing a 
minimum backup (lights & fans) of 3-4 hours for covering all bedrooms living rooms, Kitchen & dining 
area. 
5. An NTPC representative may visit the property to assess its suitability. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
1. NTPC Limited requires space for Transit Camp on lease for a period of 36 months, which may be 
further extended for a period of another 12 months. 
2. All Indian citizens/Companies may submit their offer. Brokers/estate agents can also apply; 
However, no brokerage shall be paid by NTPC Limited to the brokers submitting their offer. 
3. The offers must be submitted in a sealed envelope containing Two separate envelopes each for 
technical bid and price bid. The envelopes must be superscribed with the following as applicable: 
a. EOI for NTPC Transit Camp at Kota 
4. Further, each of the above envelopes as applicable must contain technical details and Price bids 
in separate envelopes marked thereon with the technical specifications and Price bid. Failure to 
comply with this requirement will result in summary rejection of the offer. 
5. The price Bid of will be opened only in those cases where, technical bid has been found suitable. 
For assessing the technical suitability, the authorized representatives of NTPC may undertake a 
visit / site inspection of the premises offered for lease rent. 
6. NTPC Reserves its right to reject any offer without assigning any reason. 
7. The property must have a clear title in the name of the person submitting the offer or a Power of 
Attorney in his name executed by the person having the clear title of the property. 
8. NTPC Limited will reimburse the charges for the consumption of electricity and water to the Lessor 
as per bills received by him. However, payments will be made by the Lessor. 
9. The Lessor shall pay all house taxes, rates, license fees, ground rent and charges of whatever 
character assessed, levied, charged, and imposed by or payable to any lawful authority in respect 
of the demised premises. 
10. No society Maintenance charges shall be payable by the Lessee and Lessor shall pay such charges, 
if applicable. 
11. Lessor shall affect all major repairs such as leakages, sanitary fittings, water pipes or cracks, etc. 
at his own cost immediately as and when such defects are notified to him by the Lessee. Minor 
repairs shall be carried out by the Lessee. 
12. No major modifications shall be carried out by Lesse without approval from Lessor. However, 
Minor temporary/removable modifications as may be required shall be carried out by NTPC. 
13. Lessee shall furnish the premises with Beds, Sofas, chairs etc. as per its requirement for which 
Lessor shall have no objection. 
14. Lessor shall arrange the whitewash, distemper, paints, polish the demised premises before 
occupation by the Lessee and thereafter once in three years during the lease period or extended 
lease period, at his/her cost. 
15. The Lessor shall quote Lease Rent on a Per Sq Ft basis which shall include all charges and amenities 
provided by the Lessor. The Final lease rent shall be calculated based on Carpet Area. 
16. The lease shall not be terminable at the option of the Lessor before the expiry of the lease or 
extended lease period, except on breach of the terms and conditions by the Lessee but by giving 
3 months advance notice. 
17. The offeror shall submit proof of ownership along with their offer/quotation for Lease Rent. 
18. The monthly lease rent shall be fixed for the entire period of the lease and no escalation shall be 
claimed even for the extended period of up to 4 years. 
19. The standard lease deed shall be executed by the Lessor and Lessee. 
I have read all the above terms and conditions given above and I agree to all terms and conditions. 
 
 
DATE : (SIGNATURE) 
PLACE:         (Name of the Person) 
 
Note: Each Envelope must contain Two envelopes each for technical details and a Price Bid for Transit 
Camp at Kota, Rajasthan.
TECHNICAL BID  
(to be submitted in separate envelope with “TECHNICAL BID” for Transit camp at Kota marked thereon) 
 
The DM(HR) DATE: -------------- 
NTPC Limited,  
Anta Gas power Station, Anta, Baran – 325209 (Rajasthan) 
Subject: TECHNICAL DETAILS FOR PREMISES ON LEASE RENT 
This is w.r.t. your advertisement in the newspaper regarding the hiring of Transit Camp at Kota, 
Rajasthan. I submit my offer for Transit Camp at Kota, Rajasthan as per the following details: 
 
LOCATION where the Property is situated  
ADDRESS OF PROPERTY  
OWNER OF PROPERTY  
BUILT UP AREA OF THE PREMISES IN SQ FT    
CARPET AREA OF THE PREMISES IN SQ FT    
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE PERSON 
SUBMITTING THE OFFER 
   
MOBILE NO  
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE OWNER OF THE 
PROPERTY 
 
PHOTOCOPY OF THE TITLE DEED ATTACHED YES/NO 
PHOTOCOPY OF POWER OF ATTORNEY  
ATTACHED 
YES/NO 
Any other relevant details 
 
 
 
 
This is to confirm that I have read all the terms and conditions, and I agree to the same. The signed copies 
of all the documents along with a copy of the title deed/Power of attorney are attached. 
 
Thanking You 
Yours sincerely  
 
(SIGNATURE) 
NAME AND ADDRESS WITH CONTACT DETAILS 
PRICE BID  
(to be submitted in separate envelope with “PRICE BID” for Transit camp at Kota marked thereon) 
 
 
The DM(HR) DATE: -------------- 
NTPC Limited,  
Anta Gas power Station, Anta, Baran – 325209 (Rajasthan) 
Subject: PRICE DETAILS FOR PREMISES ON LEASE RENT 
This is w.r.t. your advertisement in the newspaper regarding the hiring of Transit Camp at Kota, 
Rajasthan. I submit my offer for Transit Camp at Kota, Rajasthan as per the following details: 
 
LOCATION Where the Property is situated  
ADDRESS OF PROPERTY  
OWNER OF PROPERTY  
CARPET AREA OF THE OFFERED PREMISES IN 
SQ. FT 
 
OFFERED LEASE RENT (Per sq ft) PER MONTH  Rs  ------------------------ Per Square Ft 
LEASE RENT PER MONTH (Carper Area Sq Ft X 
Rate per SQ Ft) 
Rs.---------------------------- Per Month 
Any other relevant details  
 
This is to confirm that I have read all the terms and conditions, and I agree to the same. The signed copies 
of all the documents along with a copy of the title deed/Power of attorney are attached. 
 
 
 
 
Thanking You 
Yours sincerely  
 
 
(SIGNATURE) 
NAME AND ADDRESS WITH CONTACT DETAILS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER 
 
The information in this document has been prepared to assist the applicants in preparing the non-
binding Expression of Interest (EOI), and it is clarified that: 
The purpose of this Expression of Interest (EOI) is to invite responses from interested parties for 
offering their property on rent for operating as a Transit camp facility for NTPC at Kota . All 
data/documents received in this regard shall be treated in strict confidence and would be used only 
for internal purposes. Submission of data/documents will not imply that the party is qualified and/or 
that NTPC will be bound to award the job. 
NTPC is not bound to accept any or all EOIs and reserves the right to accept or reject any or all EOIs 
received, without assigning any reason. No applicant shall have any grievance or claim against NTPC 
or its officers, employees, successors, or assignees for rejection of the EOI. NTPC shall be entitled to 
invite offers from entities other than the applicants who have submitted EOIs. 
Each respondent shall be solely responsible for the fees, costs, and expenses incurred in preparing 
and submitting the Expression of Interest, or any subsequent responses or initiatives. NTPC will under 
no circumstances be liable to any respondent for any such fees, costs, expenses, loss, or damage 
arising out of or in connection with the EOI process. 
Neither NTPC nor its officers and employees shall be liable to any interested party or entity under 
any law—including the law of contract, tort, principles of restitution, or unjust enrichment—for any 
loss, expense, or damage incurred in connection with this document or any matter deemed to form 
part of it. 
Further, this Expression of Interest is not a tender but a process to obtain responses from interested 
parties. NTPC may or may not take further action following this EOI exercise, at its discretion, without 
assigning any reason. NTPC may also, at its absolute discretion and without obligation, update, 
cancel, amend, or supplement this document or effect changes in these guidelines without assigning 
any reason. 
Undertaking 
I have read and understood the contents of this document and agree to comply with all its terms and 
requirements. 
Date:-         Signature  
 
Place:-        Name:  