NTPC LTD 
Vendor Enlistment for IT-FMS ( Facility Management Services)  on PAN NTPC basis 
1 CEG No. IT-01 
2  
Brief description of CEG 
 
IT-FMS (Facility Management Services) Services at NTPC Plant/Location 
3 Responsibility Centre VDC 
4 Brief scope of work The FMS (Facility Management Services) for  to provide the support 
& services for installed IT -Infrastructures across the plant/stations to 
ensure the various IT services (Internet. Intranet, Telephone Line 
Maintenance, AV system, VC System, etc) to take care business 
needs. 
5 Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
1. The Bidder should have its own Establishment/Support 
Office/Repair/ Service Centre in India. (Relevant document 
having information about address must be provided) 
2. The bidder should have executed the work of " IT 
Maintenance Contract/ IT-Support Services/IT Facility 
Management Services/ Miscellaneous IT infrastructure 
facility / Maintenance or Support services of Data Networks / 
Wi-Fi Network/ LAN/WAN. 
 
Document to be 
submitted by Applicant 
in support of meeting 
QR 
 
1) Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement. 
6 Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical  
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be 
submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work 
during previous five years from the date of application and Copy of  
Completion Certificate /RA Bill from the concerned client in support  
of successful execution of works against each of the POs to be 
submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date of  
application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available,  
then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant  
may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate, if applicable 
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant  
wants to submit. 
7 NOTES: 1.  Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite  
(i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break -up 
of composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any 
separate re-imbursement/ escalation shall also not be considered. 
 