Subject: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for Eddy current testing of 
Condenser & Heat Exchanger tubes in turbine area. (CATEGORY-I Enlistment) 
NTPC LTD 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1   CEG No. TMD-24 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Vendor Enlistment for Eddy current testing of Condenser & 
Heat Exchanger tubes in turbine area.  (CATEGORY-I 
Enlistment) 
3 Responsibility 
Centre 
USSC-VEC 
4 TECHNICAL 
Qualifying 
Requirement 
 
The applicant should have executed the work (s) of Eddy 
Current Testing of Condenser tubes in turbine area of at least 
one number of steam Turbine with Minimum Unit Size of 200 
MW within preceding 05 (ﬁve) years reckoned as on the Last 
date of submission of application. 
5 Brief scope of work 1. The main objective of Eddy Current Testing (ECT) on heat 
exchanger and condenser tubes is to detect and evaluate surface 
and subsurface flaws such as corrosion, pitting, wall thinning, 
cracking, erosion, and tube denting. 
2. Agency shall mobilize necessary and qualified manpower 
(Technicians should be Level II certified in ECT) and Eddy 
current testing Equipment & accessories, T&P, Consumables & 
probes, Calibration tube (As per ASTM standard), required for 
the mentioned job. 
3. The agency shall submit test certificate of Eddy 
current testing machine, and all tools and tackles used in the 
work. 
4. Agency shall make its own arrangement for shifting of 
materials, T&P etc. required for the completion of work. 
5. The Agency shall submit the preliminary report 
including thickness loss & defects immediately after 
completion of job & final detailed report within two weeks. 
6. Any minor work not mentioned above but required for 
successful completion of the testing job shall be carried out by the 
agency as per the instructions of EIC/ representatives. 
7. The agency shall be responsible for safety and 
insurance of men and materials deployed for the execution of 
contract. 
8. Depending upon the site requirement and job need, the 
agency may be required to work beyond normal working hours. 
9. If required, the work may be carried out at two 
locations / passes simultaneously on round the clock basis to 
complete the job as per requirement of the site and manpower 
along with equipment shall be mobilize accordingly. 
10. The Contractor shall mobilize the manpower and T&P at 
the site well in advance to complete the testing within the time 
schedule communicated. 
11. Fixed Lump sum amount shall be paid per trip for 
mobilization & de-mobilization of man & material, T&P's from 
point of origin to NTPC Site & return for carrying out the 
mentioned job. This shall also be inclusive of accommodation 
charges, local conveyance charges, food charges etc. 
12. Work area: Turbine 
 13.    Other details of works as per specific station 
requirement shall be given in Tender documents. 
 
6 Documents to be 
submitted as proof 
of meeting the 
stipulated 
Qualifying 
Requirements  
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, 
terms and conditions, BOQ POs (issued within last Five (5) 
years reckoned as on Last date of submission of application in 
support of award and copy of Client's Completion 
certiﬁcate/RA Bill/ ﬁnal deviation statement from the 
concerned client /copies of invoice to establish successful 
execution as per QR. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
7 Additional 
Documents to be 
Submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment: 
- 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
similar work during previous five years from the Last Date 
of submission of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the 
concerned client in support of successful execution of jobs 
against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for 
the previous three completed financial years reckoned from 
the Last Date of submission of application. In case the 
audited documents are not ready / available, then certified 
copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may 
be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations 
available with the applicant. 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
7. NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, 
all documents/ facilities can be veriﬁed/ assessed if 
required. 
8 Note 1. The word “Executed" mentioned in technical qualifying 
requirement means that the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria speciﬁed above, even if the total 
contract is started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work 
executed prior to the Last Date of submission of 
application duly certiﬁed by the applicant’s client shall 
be considered acceptable. 
Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-
contractor may also be considered provided the 
certiﬁcate issued by main contractor is duly certiﬁed by 
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the 
applicant in support of qualifying requirements. 
3. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the 
applicant has to give break-up of composite PO value 
mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any separate re-
imbursement / escalation will not be considered. 
4. “Similar work” means works as mentioned in the QR 
technical criteria. 
5. All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
9 Quality Plan  Not Applicable 
10. Category of 
enlistment 
 Category-01 
 
 