Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 1 of 8 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)  
for 
Issue of pond ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from NSPCL-Bhilai 
 
Ref No. EOI No. EOI/Bhilai-PP3/ANNX-B/25-26/ Date: 23.08.2025 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1:  General Information. 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI. 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B. 
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized  
representative of the bidder, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified  
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 2 of 8 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NSPCL-Bhilai: 
NSPCL-Bhilai, located at Bhilai having 02 operational Thermal Power plants, namely Expansion Power Plant/ 
PP-III plant and PP-II plant having a total installed capacity of 574 MW (Expansion Power Plant/ PP-III plant 
is having 500 MW capacity (2×250 MW) and PP-II plant is having 74 MW capacity  (2×30+1×14 MW) , is 
engaged in the b u s i n e s s of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF&CC Gazette 
Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, NSPCL- Bhilai intends to issue some of its 
Pond Ash from PP-III plant ash dyke on free of cost and on first come first served basis, with  transportation 
cost being borne by the Bidders. 
To facilitate this, NSPCL-Bhilai invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 01 (One)  year, for its 
500 (2×250) MW plant. Further details regarding Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follow: 
 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NSPCL-Bhilai invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Bidders, for utilization of pond ash 
in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3). 
Total quantity of pond ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details  given 
hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location Total Quantity 
offered for EoI Period of Supply 
NSPCL-Bhilai Thermal Power  Station, 
Address-Expansion Power Plant, Near Village- 
Purena, Bhilai (East), Bhilai, Dist-Durg, State- 
Chhattisgarh, Pin-490021 
 
8,00,000 MT 
01 year 
(15.09.2025 to 
14.09.2026) 
 
How to apply 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving pond ash from NSPCL-Bhilai as per the terms and  conditions of this 
EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents and duly filled in enclosed “Part 
2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “ Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder” to the 
Email address–: ash.bhilai@nspcl.co.in on or before 17:00 hrs. of  04th  September 2025. 
Last Date of Submission of EOI 17:00 hrs. of  04th  September 2025 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and 
“Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary proof as 
applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and authentic. 
Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
Allocation of pond ash Quantity: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI, pond ash shall be allocated to various bidders  free of cost 
and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity is exhausted.  However, collecting from 
NSPCL-Bhilai issue location and transportation thereafter, will be in the scope of the bidder only. 
 
 
Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 3 of 8 
 
 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation against both the Auction Process and this EoI,  then the Ash 
quantity allocated against this EoI  shall be issued to that Bidder, only after the  Bidder completes the lifting / 
drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process 
 
Daily allocation of pond ash shall be done as given below: 
1) All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day wise requested 
quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month. In case any bidder proposes to collect the ash 
through Rail (subject to Rail Loading Facility being available  at the station), same shall also be indicated in 
this requisition. 
2) Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability. NSPCL- Bhilai shall determine 
and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous month. 
3) All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above schedule and mobilize 
accordingly. 
4) In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NSPCL-Bhilai may, at its discretion, allocate such 
quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision  of Engineer in Charge (EIC) - NSPCL shall be final and 
binding in this regard. 
 
Pond ash shall be issued from the, the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / Pond(s) or other location ass decided by 
EIC of the respective NSPCL Station, on ‘as is where is’ basis. 
 
All the statutory requirement by CECB (Chhattisgarh Environment Conservation Board)  or any 
Government agencies shall be complied by the agency. Safety requirement of NSPCL and statutory 
requirement by CECB (Chhattisgarh Environment Conservation Board) shall be conveyed in the 
details at the time of issuance of EOI by NSPCL-Bhilai. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with  submission of 
LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation  Process, at the rate of Rs. 
1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for  ensuring commitment of the Successful 
Bidder(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the           rate of Rs. 1.00  / MT of un-lifted quantity will be 
forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This adjusted SD 
amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of entire allocated quantity, 
whichever is earlier. 
Contact Persons: 
At NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED, Bhilai 
Contact Details 
1) AGM (TS)                                                   2)             DGM (TS-AU) 
NSPCL-Bhilai                                                              NSPCL-Bhilai 
Po: Bhilai( East)-490021                                        Po: Bhilai( East)-490021 
Dist- Durg(C.G)                                                          Dist- Durg(C.G) 
Phone: 0788-2442015                                            Phone: 0788-2442012 
Mail id- dk.verma@nspcl.co.in                              Mail id- hs.jena@nspcl.co.in 
Note: Application for EOI is acceptable only on email id : ash.bhilai@nspcl.co.in. Application 
submitted on any other email id/hard copy shall not be accepted. 
 
 
 
 
Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 4 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
EOI for Issue of pond ash from Expansion Power Plant dyke of NSPCL-Bhilai 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership firm)  
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
2.3 Nature of Business:  
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous Financial Year  
Location and Address of Production / Service Facility  
Whether capable of handling pond ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant regulation / 
law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
3 
Registered Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
4 Communication Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No. 
 
6 Pond ash quantity sought against EoI (both in Figures and 
Words in MT): 
Figures: 
Words: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last pond ash Auction Process from 
same station (Yes/No). 
 
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
8 
Address of the location where Bidder proposes                      to transport fly ash if 
issued. 
 
 
9 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF & CC`s Gazette 
Notification in which the bidder proposes to utilize the 
pond ash, if issued. 
S
N 
Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1
. 
  
2
. 
  
Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
3
. 
  
Total  
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
11 Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of    
Date:  
Place: 
 
                      Signature: 
                          (Authorized Representative) 
                         Name:                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                  Designation:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 6 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
 
UNDERTAKING 
I / We (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI             requirements and 
accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. 
My / Our offer is in conformity with all the  terms and conditions of the EoI including all 
corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be 
considered as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever 
applicable and required by NSPCL-Bhilai. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government /  Semi – Government / 
Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation,  nor have been convicted of violating applicable 
law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to    procedures for collection 
of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment,  Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while 
inside the Plant, Mobilization of adequate number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation 
arrangement  conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out the above 
as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding safety, environment, 
sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable statutory requirements for, and in 
connection with the execution of the contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area as directed by EIC with the 
objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting and utilization of Pond ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NSPCL-Bhilai from any liability, whatsoever, which may 
arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws 
during the course of execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us 
or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization  Avenues as identified in extant 
MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the 
issued ash for the purposes/ Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I /  we fail to execute the 
contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true and authentic to the best of 
my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any stage, the information furnished is found to be 
incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for disqualification from this EoI and also  liable for any other penal action 
that may arise due to the above. 
Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 7 of 8 
 
 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NSPCL-Bhilai is not a commitment for pond ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of  the 
EoI. NSPCL-Bhilai will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of  
the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to Railways, haulage charges and 
other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in Environment friendly       
manner, will be in my / our scope. While I / we understand that the Station may at its 
discretion, consider part / full facilitation for lifting of pond ash thru rail – mode / road 
cum rail mode, subject to  feasibility and cost economics, I / we also understand  that 
I/we shall have no claim whatsoever, in this regard. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, to the parties who have  
submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of 
submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of all  
specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as per the 
conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along with 
requisite security deposit and other specified documents required by the respective 
station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the pond ash allocation to 
me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated pond ash through auction process also from 
same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity  
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date …./ ……../ ………. Name ……………………………… 
 Place :……………………. Designation: ………………………. 
 Name of the Company: …….……. 
          Address: --------------------------------- 
                 --------------------------------- 
Company Seal: …..………………… 
Annexure- B (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 8 of 8 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
 
1) Pond ash shall be issued from, the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) /  Pond(s) or other 
location as decided by EIC, to the Successful Bidders  (or their authorized representatives 
as may be agreed to in writing by the                                      EIC based on approval by HOP), considering 
Operational and Safety issues of Ash dyke. 
2) Bidders shall make themselves aware of the  various extant Rules,  Procedures, Safety 
norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines                                                etc and carry out their activities in 
full compliance with the same. 
3) No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from TPP. 
4) General facilitating measures for lifting of Ash viz. Common Approach /  ramp, general 
area fugitive dust suppression, weighment of Ash etc shall  be in the scope of NSPCL-Bhilai. 
However, job specific facilitation viz. approach/ ramp to specific allocated area and local 
fugitive dust suppression shall be in the scope of the recipient agency. 
5) Bidders eligible for collecting Pond ash shall apply for permission for the closed / covered 
Trucks / other suitable transportation medium that they propose to deploy and submit 
the same to EIC along with specified  documents like registration, license, insurance etc, 
who shall arrange to  verify the same and issue permission as per prevailing procedure 
adopted at the Station. 
6) Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule the lifting of Ash 
from Designated storage area by different agencies,  which shall be binding upon the 
agencies. The schedules and deployment may be worked out / altered based on periodic 
meetings between concerned stakeholders. Agencies shall mobilize with adequate 
manpower, vehicles and machinery within 15 days of issue of  communication from the 
EIC. 
7) T&Ps, excavation, loading and transportation of Ash shall be in  the Scope of the  
recipient(s). 
8) Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders  and verifiable by 
TPP. 
9) Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination of contract 
/ agreement / issue of Pond ash as decided by EIC 
10) Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Bidder(s). 
11) Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed Vehicles shall 
be submitted at the time of start of work (and  also when new and / or additional vehicles 
are deployed) and thereafter as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. The 
vehicles shall be in fit condition for safe operation. 
12) Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value, 
certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond ash, in adherence with the provisions of 
the extant Notification and other  applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, in 
prescribed format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
13) In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non - compliance of any 
Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, Guidelines and Statutory provisions  
by the successful Bidder or its  representative / agent, during the course of execution and 
for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful  Bidder 
shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An  indemnity bond shall be 
submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
14) NSPCL-Bhilai reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 