NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1 CEG No. MGR-03 
2 Brief description of CEG Ultrasonic Flaw Detector (USFD)Testing of MGR rail track & 
welded Joints in MGR 
3 Responsibility Centre ERHQ-I 
4 Indicative brief scope of 
work 
A-1:  RAILS/TRACK ULTRASONIC TESTING (Unit – RMT of 
Track) 
Testing of 52 KG Rail ‘or’ 60 KG Rail track by USFD machine for 
detecting flaw by using probe 0 degree, 30 degree and 70 degree 
probes or “suitable prob e as per prevailing railway norms” 
including cleaning of Rail surface by wire brush , providing USFD 
machine and suitable Battery for this work as per 
RDSO/M&C/401/2008 or Equivalent or Advanced. All type of 
probes, all type of tools and tackles and supply  of all operators / 
Labours / supervisors, All consumable & safety items like paints & 
personal protective Equipment etc. including cleaning the rail 
surface by wire brush & coolant (water) etc.  
After completion of Testing: Periodical Test Reports indicating all 
types of defects in specified Format to be submitted immediately 
for Rectification. 
The Agency has to arrange all Safety arrangements towards his 
USFD Testing Machine and Testing Team Members as well as 
MGR Track so that Safe Movement of Rolling St ock do not 
hamper at the time of USFD TESTING. All transportation and 
protection of USFD testing Machine and Testing Team Members 
will be in scope of Agency.  
 
After identifying any defects i.e. IMR , IMRW, OBS , OBSW, DFW 
etc, the Agency has to mark with proper Red Paint "Cross Mark" 
that Rail Piece or Weld Joint as per RDSO USFD Manual, and 
inform immediately to Area PWI and concerned Engineer and 
submit report in Standard RDSO Format to EIC. 
 
Before starting the work, the Agency has to produce the Original 
& Photocopy of documents (For verification) of USFD TESTING 
MACHINE along with the test/ calibration certificate of machine 
to the EIC. 
 
 
 
 
A-2 RAILS/TRACK WELDING (Unit – Nos) 
Testing of 52 KG Rail ‘or’ 60 KG Rail welding joints by USFD 
Machine for det ecting flaw by using 80 degree regular probes or 
“suitable probe as per prevailing railway norms” including 
cleaning of welds joint/Rail surface by wire brush/coolant (water) 
Providing USFD machine and suitable Battery for this work as per 
RDSO/M&C/401/2008 or Equivalent or Advanced. All types of 
probes, all tools and tackles and supply of all operators, Labours, 
supervisors, all consumable & safety items like paints & personal 
protective Equipment etc including cleaning the weld joint /Rail 
surface by wire brush & coolant (Water) etc.  
 
After competition of Testing Periodical Test Reports indicating all 
types of defects in specified format to be submitted immediately 
for Rectification. 
 
The Agency has to arrange all Safety arrangements towards his 
USFD Test ing Machine and Testing Team Members as well as 
MGR Track so that Safe Movement of Rolling Stock do not 
hamper at the time of USFD TESTING. All transportation and 
protection of USFD testing Machine and Testing Team Members 
will be in scope of Agency.  
 
After identifying any defects i.e. IMR, IMRW, OBS , OBSW, DFW 
etc, the Agency has to mark with proper Red Paint "Cross Mark" 
that Rail Piece or Weld Joint as per RDSO USFD Manual, and 
inform immediately to Area PWI and concerned Engineer and 
submit report in Standard RDSO Format to EIC. 
Before starting the work, the Agency has to produce the Original 
& Photocopy of documents (For verification) of USFD TESTING 
MACHINE along with the test/ calibration certificate of machine 
to the EIC. 
 
Note: The above Scope of Work is indicative only: The detailed 
Scope of Work shall be as mentioned in the tender enquiry. 
5 Technical Qualifying 
requirements for 
CEG,  MGR-03 (USFD 
Testing of MGR rail 
track & welded Joints 
in MGR) 
B-1: The bidder must have experience of having su ccessfully 
executed the work of USFD Testing of Rail s and /or Rail Joints on 
Railway Track, for a minimum quantity of 80% of the track km of 
the station , in a single order over a period of last 03 years. 
B-2: The Bidder should have successfully executed t he above 
work in any Govt Deptt/ Semi Govt/SEBs/Indian Railways/PSUs 
during the last 0 3 years from the last date of submission of 
application for enlistment. 
 
Document to be 
submitted by a pplicant 
in support of meeting 
QR 
A. Detailed Work order/PO with ment ion of scope of work, terms 
and conditions and BOQ. 
B. Work completion Certificate/  (Job progress certificate if the 
work is not completed) from employer with mention of date of 
start and completion , executed value as per BOQ  and 
performance of contractor for this work. 
C. Contractor should attach document showing the total track 
length of the station/project in which work was carried out/is 
under progress.(Attach this in QR document field) 
  
6 Additional Documents 
to be submitted 
Following documents are also required to be submitted by the 
applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work 
during previous five years from the date of application and Copy of   
Completion Certificate /RA Bill/ final deviation stat ement from the 
concerned client in support of execution  of job against each of the 
POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date of 
application. In case the audited documents are not ready / 
available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered 
accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSE registration certificate, if applicable.  
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate. 
5. Any other documen ts in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to submit. 
7 Notes Guidelines for finding the executed value of the POs submitted by 
the applicants  (Three heighest executed values shall be 
considered) 
(a) Executed value means “The combined executed value from    
      all BOQs of the similar work or   the   lump- sum amount of    
      the similar work executed by the applicant (if there is no   
      BOQ)” 
(b) Similar work means “The work of USFD Testing of Rail &/ or  
      Rail Joints on Railway Track in any Govt Deptt/ Semi Govt  
      /SEBs / Indian Railways /PSUs during the last 05-years from  
       the last date of submission of application for enlistment. 
(c)  Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is  
      composite (i.e. including Service taxes  etc.), the applicant   
      has to give break-up of composite PO value mentioning  
       basic value, taxes  etc.  
(d)  Material values supplied, if any, within the similar work shall     
  be considered as executed values if total material value  
  supplied is equal to or less than 20% of overall executed  
  value. If the material value is more, than total material value    
  shall not be considered within executed value. 
 
 
 
 
 