Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
1 Scope of 
Supply/Service 208 Main RFP
3. Installation and
commissioning
3.1 Installation 
and 
commissioning of 
Hardware
(viii) Bidder should have a tie-up with the respective OEMs for 
support during
installation. The installation has to be certified by the respective 
OEM and bidder
has to submit the OEM certification for the same.
Installation is always carried out by the 
Bidder (System Integrator); the OEM is 
typically not involved in the installation 
activity. Bidder requests that the line should 
be changed to "The installation has to be self 
certified by the Bidder"
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
2 Scope of 
Supply/Service 101 Main RFP
Inspection
and
tests
All materials shall be inspected as per provisions of SPC / Technical
Specification. The Contractor/Supplier shall execute the Purchase
Order/Services in compliance with the provisions of the Contract.
For all cases where pre-dispatch inspection is stipulated, materials 
shall be inspected prior to dispatch by an authorized 
representative of NTPC for which an advance notice of 15 days 
shall be given by the
Contractor/Supplier. In such cases no material shall be dispatched 
without inspection unless specific waiver/exemption is 
communicated in writing to the Contractor/Supplier. In all cases 
necessary test certificates, guarantee certificate in respect of 
material/equipment performance shall be furnished along with 
despatch documents. However, the final inspection of material 
shall be done at our site only and acceptance of materials is 
subject to such final inspection only
OEM products are dispatched from Different 
warehouse across India and inspection prior 
to dispatch is not feasible . Also it would lead 
to delay in the product delivery.Bidder 
requests that OEM compliance to 
specifications should be considered. Kindly 
consider
Also, request more clarity on the cases which 
would fall under this category 
Pre-dispatch 
inspection is not 
stipulated in this 
package.
3 Scope of 
Supply/Service 208 Main RFP
3. Installation and
commissioning
3.1 Installation 
and 
commissioning of 
Hardware
(ix) Provide OEM services to carry out performance tuning of
complete systems supplied by the bidder
Bidder understand that the performance  
tuning of supplied hardware would be done 
by Bidder and bidder would involve OEM as 
and when required as B2B OEM support 
would be there for the contract duration. 
Application performance issue would be 
taken care by respective application owner. 
Kindly confirm
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
4 Scope of 
Supply/Service 210 Main RFP
6. System 
Availability
requirements & 
deduction for Non-
performances
For meeting the SLA, bidder may have to deploy 2 resident 
engineers (DC+DR) on his behest at his own cost. NTPC shall not 
be responsible for the boarding, lodging
Is the requirement is for two Resident 
Engineers at both DC and DR (i.e., 2 each, 
Total 4 ), or one Resident Engineer at DC and 
one at DR? Bidder understands that the 
engineer would be working in general shift . 
Kindly confirm
One at DC and One at 
DR.
5 Scope of 
Supply/Service 212 Main RFP
7.4 Delivery 
Timeline and 
Liquidated 
Damages Clause
The bidder shall ensure the complete supply, installation, testing, 
and commissioning of the
All the Equipment within ninety (90) calendar days from the date 
of issuance of the Purchase
Order (PO) by NTPC Ltd.
As the OEM hardware delivery timeslines are 
usually  8-12 weeks and post that ITC of all 
equipments would take time, Bidders 
requests that implementation period should 
be increased from 90 days to 150 days
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
6 Terms & 
Conditions 212 Main RFP Liquidated 
damages
The timely delivery of the material is the essence of the contract. 
In the event of Contractor/Supplier’s failure to deliver the material 
of acceptable quality within the stipulated delivery period, the 
liquidated damages are payable by the Contractor/Supplier @ 
0.5% (one half of one percent) per week of delay or part thereof, 
of the unexecuted order value. However, the total liability of the 
Contractor/Supplier under this clause shall not exceed 5% of the 
Order value as awarded
Bidders requests that implementation period 
should be increased from 90 days to 150 
days. Else Bidder requests that as delivery is 
dependent upon OEM and also the SITC is 
dependent upon site readiness, in case the 
dependency is due to OEM or NTPC, the 
Liquidated damages should not be imposed 
on the bidder . Request confirmation
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
7 Terms & 
Conditions 186 Main RFP
25.0. Payment 
Terms
25.1 Hardware 
Supply, 
Installation, 
Commissioning, 
Testing, Handover
a) 75% after receipt and successful inspection of all BOQ items. (60 
Days from the award of PO)
15 % after completion of all activities as per scope. (90 Days from 
the award of PO)
5% after successful integration and rollout of PRADIP System 5% 
payment will be released after 1 year warranty as per 
performance and deductions on account of penalty as per agreed 
SLA/FMS.
Documents Required: Submission of by Bidder of Warranty 
certificates and back-up support guarantee for all hardware and 
software products from respective OEMs through assurance 
letter/certificates to NTPC for on-site warranty support of Seven 
(1+6) years as per warranty terms above. Availability of all 
hardware/software
Here the quoted price (excluding taxes) of CMS for 6 years should 
not be less than 35% of (supply + installation) price (excluding 
taxes) at least Otherwise then an amount equal to the “difference 
of 35% of (supply + installation) excluding taxes and quoted CMS 
price excluding taxes for 6 years" shall be retained as "Retained 
Amount towards CMS" from the total amount payable for supply 
portion. The retained amount shall be released in equal 
instalments along with quarterly CMS payment.
25.3 AMC payment shall be released in Quarterly RA Bill basis 
after Certification by Engineer-in-Charge.
Bidder request below changes in payment 
terms:
a. 85% against delivery and successful
inspection of all BOQ items. (60 Days from 
the award of PO)
b. 10 % after completion of all activities as 
per scope. (90 Days from the award of PO)
c. 5% payment will be released after
successful integration and rollout of PRADIP 
System or  1 year warranty whichever is 
earlier
d. For AMC , bidder requests that payment
should be quarterly in advance with in 30 
days from date of invoice against equal 
amount ABG( Advanced Bank Guarantee) 
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
8 Scope of 
Supply/Service 211 Main RFP
 6.System
Availability
requirements & 
deduction for Non-
performances
 6.2.2AMC Period:
 a)The availability of PRADIP Services shall be maintained above
99% on quarterly basis.
 b)In case of availability between <=99 and >98, 5% of Quarterly
AMC Amount + Retained amount as per Clause 7.2.
 c)In case of availability between <=98 and >97, 10% of Quarterly
AMC Amount + Retained amount as per Clause 7.2.
 d)In case of availability between <=97, 15% of Quarterly AMC
Amount + Retained amount as per Clause 7.2.
Bidder understands that Pradip services 
would be considered available if one of the 
HA hardware is available . Kindly confirm 
Also, bidder requess that max penalty during 
CMS period should be capped to 10% of 
quarterly CMS value excluding the retained 
amount 
Penalty should be imposed on the bidder for 
reasons solely and exclusively attributable to 
the bidder 
Caping is already 
mentioned in NTPC 
Specification in 
Clause 6.2.2 (d). 
Remaining conditions 
shall be as per the 
NTPC Specification 
without any 
deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
9 Scope of 
Supply/Service 215 Main RFP Server(X86) 
Technical Solution
Backup Solution: 
 (a)Must support bare-metal recovery of virtual machines.
 (b)Support for Windows Server and Linux OS plaƞorms.
 (c)The Storage for Backup will be provided by NTPC. Vendor has 
to integrate the Backup Solution with NTPC Provided Storage.
Kindly clarify whether the Vendor is required 
to supply and implement the backup solution 
(software/licenses) in addition to integrating 
it with the NTPC-provided storage, or if NTPC 
will provide the backup software/solution 
and the Vendor’s role is limited to integration 
only.
In case backup solution is required, would 
need the no, of VM's which needs to be 
considered for backup
Backup Solution to be 
provided by Vendor 
for 30 VMs.
Can Product/Service 
Specification 223 Main RFP
Rack-Mountable 
KVM Switch for 
Enterprise
Support for USB, PS/2, /VGA/HDMI/DP
Currently, no single product offers USB and 
PS/2 plus VGA, HDMI, and DisplayPort in one 
console. Also PS/2 plus VGA is not being used 
for most servers  currently . Hence pls change 
the requirment to "Support for USB,  
HDMI/DP"
"Support for USB, 
PS/2, 
/VGA/HDMI/DP" may 
be read as "Support 
for USB, PS/2 
/VGA/HDMI/DP"
11 Product/Service 
Specification 215 Main RFP Virtualization & 
Clustering Windows DC Edition Unlimited VMs + RHEL Unlimited VMs
Microsoft WindowssLic+SA is for 3 Yrs and 
then renews SA  in 3 Yrs block. If we need for 
7 Yrs , we need to provision for  either 6 Yrs 
or 9 Yrs . Kindly calrify if SA is to be provided 
for 6 Yrs or 9 Yrs 
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
12 Terms & 
Conditions
G
e
n
e
r
a
l
Related to OEM items
For OEM Items bidder request clarification as 
below: “In respect of OEM products and/or 
OEM support thereon to be supplied via the 
bidder (collectively “OEM Items”), those will 
be provided solely as per OEM terms. In case 
of any issues arising from OEM Items, bidder 
will coordinate with the relevant OEM or 
reseller to pass on any service level credit to 
XXXXX, but the bidder shall not be 
responsible for any representations, 
warranties or indemnities in respect of OEM 
Items. Notwithstanding anything contained 
in the RFP or the contract, under no 
circumstances shall bidder be liable for any 
damages arising out of use of OEM Items.”
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
13 Terms & 
Conditions 104 ATC Limitation of 
Liability
Except in cases of criminal negligence or willful misconduct,
(a) Neither Party shall be liable to the other Party, whether in
contract, tort, or otherwise, for any indirect or consequential loss 
or damage, loss of use, loss of production, or loss of profits or 
interest costs, which may be suffered by the other Party in 
connection with the Contract, provided that this exclusion shall 
not apply to any obligation of the Contractor to pay liquidated 
damages to the Employer and
(b) the aggregate liability of the Contractor to the Employer,
whether under the Contract, in tort or otherwise, shall not exceed 
the total Contract Price, provided that this limitation shall not 
apply to any obligation of the Contractor to indemnify the 
Employer with respect to patent infringement.
(c) the aggregate liability of the Employer to the Contractor, 
whether under the Contract, in tort or otherwise, at any point of 
time during the execution/performance of the Contract, shall not 
exceed the ‘total Contract Price less payments already released to 
the Contractor’.
We request to define the clause as below:
(a) Neither Party shall be liable to the other 
Party, whether in contract, tort, or otherwise, 
for any indirect or consequential loss or 
damage, loss of use, loss of production, or 
loss of profits or interest costs, which may be 
suffered by the other Party in connection 
with the Contract
(b) the aggregate liability of the Contractor to 
the Employer, whether under the Contract, in
tort or otherwise, shall not exceed the total 
Contract Price
(c) the aggregate liability of the Employer to 
the Contractor, whether under the Contract, 
in tort or otherwise, at any point of time 
during the execution/performance of the 
Contract, shall not exceed the ‘total Contract 
Price
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
14 Terms & 
Conditions
22, 
107, 
192
ATC Indeminification Section 31 & 32 Page 22, Item 48.2 Page 107, Section 38 Page 192.
We request the indemnities be limited to the 
following:
“If a third party asserts a claim against the 
Employer that the Contractor’s services 
acquired under the Agreement infringes a 
patent or copyright, Contractor will defend 
the Employer against that claim and pay 
amounts finally awarded by a court against 
the Employer or included in a settlement 
approved by the Contractor. Employer must 
promptly: i) notify Contractor in writing of 
the claim; ii) supply information requested by 
Contractor; and iii) allow Contractor to 
control, and reasonably cooperates in, the 
defense and settlement, including mitigation 
efforts.”
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
15 Terms & 
Conditions 85,201 Main RFP Dispute 
Resolution Section 14 Page 85, Section 7 Page 201.
Disputes should be resolved via arbitration. 
We request the following to be documented:
“Both parties agree to the application of the 
laws of India, without regard to conflict of 
law principles. Disputes shall be finally 
settled in accordance with The Arbitration 
and Conciliation Act, 1996 then in effect, in 
English, with seat in New Delhi, India. There 
shall be one arbitrator if the amount in 
dispute is less than or equal to Indian Rupee 
five crores and three arbitrators if the 
amount is more.”
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
16 Terms & 
Conditions 42 ATC Termination Termination
Bidder request the clause to be amended as 
below: Termination for Cause-Upon material 
breach, either party may terminate this 
Statement of Work by giving the other party 
not less than 90 days written notice. Upon 
termination, customer would pay bidder for 
(1) all Services bidder provided up to the
effective date of termination , and any
Products and Materials bidder delivers
through termination, 
Termination for Convenience - Customer may 
terminate this Statement of Work without 
cause, by giving not less than ninety (90) 
days’ written notice to bidder, provided that, 
in case of such termination, Customer shall 
pay bidder all of the following amounts: 
 •Charges for Services provided by bidder up
to the effective date of termination, and
charges for any products or materials 
provided by bidder.
 •Costs incurred by bidder in connection with
the termination of this Statement of Work.
 •Deferred costs or unamortized investments,
including but not limited to: net book value of
assets procured from or on behalf of the 
Customer, initial transition or setup costs not 
yet fully amortized, and other unamortized 
investments. 
 •Applicable wind-down expenses.
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
17 Product/Service 
Specification 214 ATC BOQ of Items BOQ
After due diligence bidder understand that 
there is gap in compute and memory 
specifications and what is currently running in 
environment. This request to please 
revalidate and confirm the sizing.
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl Category Page RFP File Section RFP Clause Query NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Query -1 & NTPC Reply
18 Terms & 
Conditions 5 Main RFP 7.2
For clause 7.2 "List of documents to be submitted by vendor to 
Qualify this QR:" (ii) Copies of Purchase order(s) / LOA(s)/Contract 
Agreement(s) and installation / commissioning/ acceptance 
certificate from the client(s) clearly indicating period of execution 
along with value (Excl. Taxes & duties) and scope of work 
executed as on/before date of Techno-commercial bid opening 
duly certified and digitally signed by specified TPIA/ Independent 
Statutory Auditor."
request to amend the point as below: "(ii) 
Copies of Purchase order(s) / LOA(s)/Contract 
Agreement(s) and installation / 
commissioning/ acceptance certificate from 
the client(s) clearly indicating period of 
execution along with value (Excl. Taxes & 
duties) and scope of work executed as 
on/before date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening."
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
19 Terms & 
Conditions 160 ATC Appendix-1 to 
Annexure-15 Appendix-1 to Annexure-15 
Appendix-1 to Annexure-15. The bidder 
request to be exempted from submitting this 
appendix in case the Reference work Details 
/ WO/PO/LOA/Contract submitted for 
qualification are issued by employer (NTPC 
Ltd) itself.
As per the NTPC 
Specification without 
any deviation.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl NO Page No Clause Tender Specifications Prebid Queries/Recmmendations Justification NTPC Reply
The appliance should have minimum: We suggest to modify this point as 
below :
The current specification of 12 × 10GbE and 
6 × 40GbE ports may result in oversizing the 
appliance and increased cost, especially 
when the system throughput requirement 
can be achieved with a smaller number of 
interfaces.
a. 12 * 10GbE SFP+ ports. The appliance should have 
minimum:
b. 6*40GbE QSFP+ ports. a. 8 * 10GbE SFP+ ports.
Industry-standard appliances capable of 
delivering the required throughput typically 
support 8 × 10GbE and 4 × 40GbE 
interfaces, which are sufficient to meet 
both performance and redundancy needs 
(using Link Aggregation / Portchannel for 
resiliency).
c. 6X10 Gbps pluggable optics multimode SR b. 4*40GbE QSFP+ ports.
d. 2X40 Gbps pluggable Optics mutimode SR c. 6X10 Gbps pluggable optics
multimode SR
Reducing the interface requirement will 
allow a broader participation of OEMs 
while still ensuring performance, 
scalability, and redundancy are met.
e. Dual AC power supply d. 2X40 Gbps pluggable Optics
mutimode SR
f. 5vADCs e. Dual AC power supply
f. 5vADCs
We suggest to modify this point as 
below :
The overall system requirement specifies 
100 Gbps throughput, but the SSL 
requirement is limited to 10 Gbps bulk SSL 
throughput and 20,000 TPS, which is 
disproportionately low compared to the 
system throughput.
The system should have hardware-
based SSL acceleration with 
minimum 70 Gbps of bulk SSL 
throughput and 140,000 RSATPS (2k 
key size) and  85K ECDSA TPS, 
scalable with license up to system 
throughput.
Pre Bid Querry -2 & NTPC Reply
As per the NTPC Specification 
without any deviation.
The technical specification 
provided , is the minimum 
requirement. Any product / 
material having better or higher 
features shall always be 
technically acceptable. 
1 216 A.3
2 216 A.6
It should have hardware based SSL acceleration 
with 10Gbps of bulk SSL throughput and 20,000 
2k SSL transactions per second (TPS)/CPS.
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl NO Page No Clause Tender Specifications Prebid Queries/Recmmendations Justification NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Querry -2 & NTPC Reply
For real-world deployments, SSL/TLS traffic 
forms a significant portion of application 
traffic. Limiting SSL to 10 Gbps may create a 
bottleneck and prevent the system from 
achieving its rated performance under 
encrypted workloads.
Leading OEMs provide hardware-based SSL 
acceleration that scales linearly with 
system throughput to ensure there is no 
degradation for encrypted traffic.
We suggest to modify this point as 
below :
Leading OEM hardware load balancers 
already provide robust HA mechanisms 
using standard network interfaces, 
including:
The system should support 
automated configuration 
synchronization and fast failover 
using standard network-based HA 
mechanisms, without the need for 
specialized USB/proprietary cable 
connections.
Automated configuration synchronization.
State/connection mirroring.
Sub-second failover times.
These capabilities are achieved over 
existing network links and do not require 
additional specialized cables (USB or 
proprietary interconnects).
Mandating a specific cable-based fast 
failover method may unnecessarily restrict 
the solution to certain OEMs, while 
equivalent or better functionality can be 
achieved using standards-based clustering 
and HA features.
A.7
It should have USB/Network based fast failover 
support for automated configuration 
synchronization and improved failover time as 
compare to traditional cluster.
As per the NTPC Specification 
without any deviation.3 216
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl NO Page No Clause Tender Specifications Prebid Queries/Recmmendations Justification NTPC Reply
Pre Bid Querry -2 & NTPC Reply
In order to meet high performance requirements 
load balancer must support
We suggest to modify this point as 
below :
For hardware load balancer solutions, 
introducing a hypervisor layer adds 
unnecessary overhead, operational 
complexity, and additional points of failure. 
It also increases the attack surface, 
introducing additional security concerns.
“hypervisor based five virtual load balancer to 
create individual dedicated resource
The load balancer must support 
multitenancy (vADC partitions / 
system-level virtualization) with 
dedicated allocation of CPU, 
memory, disk, and interfaces to 
each tenant, without requiring a 
hypervisor layer.
CPU, memory; disk and interface allocated load 
balancer instances”
Leading OEM hardware load balancers 
already provide native multi-tenancy (vADC 
partitions / system-level 
virtualization) without requiring an 
external hypervisor.
These native capabilities allow 
administrators to allocate CPU, memory, 
disk, and interface resources to 
independent load balancer instances with 
greater efficiency, performance, and 
security than hypervisor-based models.
As per the NTPC Specification 
without any deviation.4 216 A.8
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl PBQ in GeM NTPC Reply
1
"For Page: 208 RFP File: Main RFP Section: 3. Installation and commissioning 3.1 Installation and 
commissioning of Hardware Point: (viii) Bidder should have a tie-up with the respective OEMs for support 
during installation. The installation has to be certified by the respective OEM and bidder has to submit the 
OEM certification for the same. Query is as below: Installation is always carried out by the Bidder (System 
Integrator); the OEM is typically not involved in the installation activity. Bidder requests that the line 
should be changed to ""The installation has to be self certified by the Bidder"""
As per the NTPC Specification without any deviation.
2 Sir, as you are looking for the virtualization it is recommended to ask processor with "Hyper Threading 
Technology". It will help to get better performance & best solution As per the NTPC Specification without any deviation.
Pre Bid Querry-3 in GeM & NTPC Reply
Tech Corrigendum-I
Sl RFP Page 
No.
RFP Clause 
Name & No. RFP Clause Bidder’s Query NTPC Reply
1 4
7. Qualifying 
Requirement 
for Bidders
Note for clause: 7.1 of QR
1. ‘Similar’ work means works which inter alia include Supply, 
Installation of Servers and Network Switches / Load Balancers in a 
single order.
2. The word “executed” means the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the contract has been started earlier 
and / or is not completed / closed. 
3. In case of contract(s) under execution as on the date of techno-
commercial bid opening, the value of ‘similar’ work(s) executed till 
the date of techno commercial bid opening shall be considered 
subject to
submission of certificate from End-user duly certifying the executed 
value of ‘similar’ work in such Contract/PO/Work. 
4. The contract could be through Letter of Award/ Purchase Order/ 
MOU/ Contract Agreement 
5. The above value of executed work is exclusive of applicable tax/ 
GST. 
Note for clause: 7.1 of QR
1. ‘Similar’ work means works which inter alia include 
Supply, Installation of Servers, Storage, Network Switches
& Load Balancers in a single order.
2. The word “executed” means the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the contract 
has been started earlier and / or is not completed / closed.
3. In case of contract(s) under execution as on the date of
techno commercial bid opening, the value of ‘similar’ 
work(s) executed till the date of techno commercial bid 
opening shall be considered subject to submission of 
certificate from End-user duly certifying the executed value 
of ‘similar’ work in such Contract/PO/Work. 
4. The contract could be through Letter of Award/ Purchase 
Order/ MOU/ Contract Agreement 
5. The above value of executed work is exclusive of
applicable tax/ GST. 
As per the NTPC 
Specification 
without any 
deviation.
Pre Bid Querry -4 & NTPC Reply
Tech Corrigendum-I