 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE MATERIALS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Methanol Procurement for Demonstration of Methanol firing in 
Kayamkulam GT 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.: CS-0011-130C-9    
 
Bidding Document No.: CS-0011-130C-9. 
1. NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope  Bidding Basis for 
aforesaid Package, as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by Bid der from the 
website https://gem.gov.in. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. 
 
3. This NIT is published on Open tender basis.  
4. SCOPE OF WORK 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the  V o l -
III,Technical Specification & SOW of Bidding Document No. As sp ecified 
above. 
 
5. NTPC intends to finance the subject package through Own Reso urces. 
 
6. Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the fol lowing schedule: 
 
Issuance of IFB 05.09.2025 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
12.09.2025 
Bid receipt date & time 19.09.2025(11.00 hrs) 
Date & Time for opening of Bid. 19.09.2025 (11.30 hrs) 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Nil  
            
Bidder is advised to visit the GeM (e-tender) portal of Govt. f or updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender.  
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be 
entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-
Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified at the tender portal”. 
 
7. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the 
Invitation for Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case 
no Bidder / intending Bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
 
8. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with I ndia’, as specified 
in the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bid ding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to  bidders from 
those countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to w hich the 
Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government 
of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
9. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions  are given in the 
Bidding Documents, which may be downloaded from e-Tender websit e 
(https://gem.gov.in). 
 
10. Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not const rue that such 
Bidder is considered to be qualified. 
 
11. This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted wi th it are 
confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom 
they are addressed. You are requested to keep all the information confidential 
and do not disclose it to any other third party, persons or firms. 
 
12. Address for communication: 
Shailendra Kr. Srivastava/Abhishek Kumar Jain 
DGM (CS) /AGM (CS) 
           NTPC Limited 
           Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
 e - m a i l :  shailendrakrsrivastava@ntpc.co.in/abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in 
  Contact. 01204946589./ 01204946520 
 
 
 
(This document is meant for the exclus ive purpose of bidding against this 
package and shall not be transferred,  reproduced or otherwise used for 
purposes other than that for which it is specifically issued.) 