 
Page 1 of 10 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Govt. of India enterprise) 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
For Lifting Pond ash from NTPC, Ramagundam & Telangana 
 
EOI No. AM-R&T/Pond Ash/ 2025 Date: 16.09.2025 
Name of Work:  
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana TPS located at Peddapalli district, Telangana -505215 
invites Expression of Interest (EoI) from interested agencies for lifting of Pond Ash ‘on free of 
cost’ and ‘First come First Served’ basis with transportation cost to be borne by User 
agencies. 
How to Apply 
 
Interested eligible End Users engaged in the work of road construction, mine stowing, shoreline 
protection, dams and brick manufacturers etc are requested to submit their 'EOI' as per 
standard Format along with other required details  uploaded in https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in. 
 
The EOI may be submitted through email to ajitbose@ntpc.co.in and manojkumar03@ntpc.co.in 
Last date of submission of EOI: 22/09/2025, 17.00 hrs 
For details, kindly visit   https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ 
 
Registered Office: NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi 
-110003. www.ntpc.co.in 
Leading the Power Sector 

 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
Issue of Pond ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation Cost to be borne by End Users, from NTPC, Ramagundam & 
Telangana STPS 
Ref No. EOI No. NTPC/R&T/Pond Ash/ 2025 Date: 16.09.2025 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana: 
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana, located at Peddapalli district, Telangana -505215 having a total 
installed capacity of 2600 MW at NTPC Ramagundam and 1600 MW at NTPC Telangana, is 
engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the pond ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant 
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of pond ash as resource material, NTPC 
Ramagundam and Telangana intends to issue some of its Pond Ash on free of cost and on first 
come first served basis, with transportation cost to be borne by the End User Agencies. 
To facilitate the above, NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana invites Expression of Interest (EOI) 
as follows: 
  EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested 
eligible End Users, for utilization of pond ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC 
Notification in the prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3). 
Total quantity of pond ash from the Thermal Power Stations available for issue  is as per 
details given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location Total pond 
ash Quantity 
offered (LMT) 
Period of Supply 
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana 
Thermal Power Station, 
Address- Peddapalli district, Telangana -
505215. 
 
          23.67 
 
Six (06) Months from date of 
start of LOA 
 
  
  How to apply 
Eligible End User Agencies interested to lift pond ash from NTPC Ramagundam and 
Telangana as per the terms and conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest 
along with specified documents and duly filled in enclosed “Part 2: Format for Submission of 
Response to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency” to the E-Mail address 
ajitbose@ntpc.co.in  and manojkumar03@ntpc.co.in  on or before 22/09/2025, 5.30 pm. 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response to EOI” 
and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency”: 
1. Company Registration Certificate as may be applicable 
2. GST registration copy as may be applicable 
3. PAN copy 
4. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary 
proof as applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
 
 
 
  Allocation of Pond Ash Quantity: 
Based on the date & time of receipt of responses to EoI, pond ash shall be allocated to Eligible  
End User agencies only engaged in road construction, mine stowing, shoreline protection, dam 
construction, brick manufacturing etc within 300 km distance from NTPC, Ramagundam & 
Telangana on ‘free of cost and on first come first served basis’ with transportation cost to be 
borne by the User agencies. The Allocated quantity will be decided by NTPC based on 
eligibility of End Users as per MOEF guidelines, time of receipt of response to EOI through 
Email, ash utilization potential within 6 months, past performance etc. 
However, collecting pond ash from identified location and transportation thereafter will be in the 
scope of the Agency only. ` 
In case the same Agency gets pond ash allocation against both through Auction Process and 
this EoI, the pond ash quantity allocated through this EoI shall be issued to that Agency, only 
after completion of lifting / drawl of the allocation through the Auction Process. 
 
 
Daily allocation of pond ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful Agencies shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day 
wise requested quantities for each month. 
2. Lifting Sequence & allocation shall be finalized by NTPC depending upon site specific 
conditions. 
3. All allocated Agencies (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize the resources accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate Agency(s) / avenue(s). Decision of NTPC’s Engineer-in - 
Charge (EIC) shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
 
Pond ash shall be issued from designated locations of ash Dyke/ Other Suitable Locations as 
decided by the EIC, NTPC Ramagundam & Telangana on ‘as is where is’ basis. 
 
  Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful End User Agencies shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit (SD) 
amount along with LOA Acceptance at the rate of INR 1.00 per MT subject to minimum of INR 
10,000. This Security Deposit will be kept for ensuring commitment of the Successful Agencies 
for lifting the allocated Ash. In case of non-lifting of prorata pond ash quantity by Successful 
agencies within one month from the date of allocation and thereafter successive months till the 
completion of contract period, an amount at the rate of INR 1.00 per MT of un-lifted quantity will 
be deducted from SD. The Security Deposit will be refunded after adjustment of amount to be 
recovered, if any; within two months from the end of Contract Period.
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official Letter Head of the Agency) 
(To be submitted by the Agency along with specified documents) 
   
                   EOI for Issue of pond ash from NTPC, Ramagundam & Telangana STPS 
 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Agency  
 
2. Whether Government or Private Agency  
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Nature of Organisation:  
Avenue where pond ash will be used  
Production / AshUtilisation Capacity per 
Annum 
 
Actual Production / Ash Utilisation during  
previous Financial Year 
 
Location and Address of Production/ 
Manufacturing Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling pond ash in an 
environmentally friendly manner as per 
extant rnotification/regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
Pond ash quantity Requested against 
Expression of Interest (both in Figures and 
Words): (in MT) 
 
Figures: 
 
 
Words: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Pond Ash in the Last Pond 
ash Auction Process from NTPC, 
Ramagundam & or Telangana (Yes/No). 
 
If yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate of Pond Ash allocated (INR per MT)  
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Address of the location where Agency 
proposes to transport pond ash if allocated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the Agency 
proposes to utilize the pond ash, if allocated. 
SN Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, 
etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
11 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of   
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
 
Signature: 
(Authorized 
Representative) Name: 
Designation: 
Seal: 
 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency. 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of INR 500/- and Notarised)  
I / We   (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained in 
all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the 
terms and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event 
of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered as part 
and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and 
wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor 
have been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer in Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, 
Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization of 
adequate number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement 
conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out 
the above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding 
safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all 
applicable statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the 
contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area as 
directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting 
and utilization of pond ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries 
from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of 
any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of 
execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / 
us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization 
Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit an 
affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purpose/ Avenues as identified in 
extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / we 
fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
 
 
 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true and 
authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at 
any stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable 
for disqualification from this EoI and also liable for any other penal action that may arise 
due to the above. 
                                            DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for pond ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the 
EoI. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the 
conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Not Applicable. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, to the parties who have 
submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of 
submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of all 
specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along 
with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as 
per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along 
with requisite security deposit and other specified documents required by the 
respective station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the pond ash 
allocation to me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated pond ash through auction process also from same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Name ……………………………… 
……………………………………… 
Place: ……………………. Designation: ………………………. 
...................…………………………     
Name of the Company: …….……. 
…………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
Company Seal: ….………………… 
 
Page 10 of 10 
 
 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Pond ash shall be issued from the Ash dyke or other location as decided by EIC to the 
Successful Agencies (or their authorized representatives as may be agreed to in writing 
by the EIC), considering Pond Ash Availability, Operational and Safety issues. 
2. Agencies shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, Procedures, Safety 
norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines etc and carry out their activities in 
full compliance with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from TPP. 
4. Agencies eligible for collecting pond ash shall apply for permission for the 
bulkers/covered trucks that they propose to deploy and submit the same to EIC along 
with specified documents like registration, license, insurance etc., who shall arrange to 
verify the same and issue permission as per prevailing procedure adopted at the 
Station. 
5. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule or reschedule 
the lifting of ash from Ash dyke by different agencies, which shall be binding upon the 
Successful Agencies. Successful Agencies shall start collecting the Ash as per their 
respective allocation as per the schedule intimated by the EIC. 
6. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Agencies and verifiable 
by TPP. 
7. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination of contract 
/ agreement / issue of pond ash as decided by EIC 
8. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Agency(s). 
9. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed Vehicles 
shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and when new and / or additional 
vehicles are deployed) and thereafter as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. 
The vehicles shall be in fit condition. 
10. Successful Agencies shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite 
value, certifying the complete Utilization of issued pond ash, in adherence with the 
provisions of the extant Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This 
affidavit, in prescribed format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
11. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non- compliance of any 
Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, Guidelines and Statutory provisions 
by the successful Agency or its representative / agent, during the course of execution 
and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful 
Agency shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity bond 
shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
12. In case of any dispute, amicable settlement shall be done. However, in case of non-
settlement of disputes amicably, High Court of Telangana shall have the jurisdiction. 
13. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case information / 
details provided are found false even at a later date. 