CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR NABINAGAR STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-0371-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
1 OF 4 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
NTPC Limited  
(A GOVT. OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 FOR 
 CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR NABINAGAR STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
LOCATED AT 
 Nabiangar STPS, PO-Aditi Nagar, District-Aurangabad, Bihar-824304 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No.: 2025_NTPC_100397_1  Date:19.09.2025 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:   CS-0371-317A-9 
1.0 NTPC invites online bids at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) 
at website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding 
basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from 
eligible bidders for or aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly 
mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
Design, Engineering, supply, construction/erection/installation  (including all 
associated mechanical, electrical, civil and C&I works) of the following: 
x 1 No. Twin Flue and 1 No. Single Flue Reinforced concrete chimney shell
(using slipform equipment) over a reinforced concrete foundation including
excavation in all types of soils, dewatering and backfilling and piling works.
x Internal structural steel platforms; a reinforced concrete roof  s l a b
supported over structural steel beams; a grade level floor slab with metallic
hardener finish.
x MS Flue liner including Insulation up to Terminal point, Mini S hell,
Expansion Compensators, Probes and Sleeves for Instrumentation etc.
complete.
x Internal structural steel staircase and ladders.
x Roll-up door and personnel access doors at the grade level.
x Roof drainage system.
x Painting of chimney shell surfaces and painting/coating of all structural
steel work and other components.
x Rack & pinion Elevator including mandatory spares
x Aviation obstruction lighting system, lightning & earthing prot ection
system, Internal lighting, cables & wiring, distribution boards  and lighting
panels, communication system and other electrical accessories.
x Access road up to chimney, paving & peripheral drain around chimney
CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR NABINAGAR STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-0371-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
2 OF 4 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the subject package through Domestic / Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the 
bidding documents, which are available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ . The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under: 
Issuance of IFB 19.09.2025 
Documents Download Dates & Timings 19.09.2025 
Pre Bid Conference date & time 25.09.2025 
Last Date for receipt of Queries from 
prospective Bidders (if any)** 
26.09.2025 
Bid Submission Start Date and Time 
(both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
17.10.2025, 11:00 hrs. (IST) 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
23.10.2025 at 03:00 hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-
Commercial Bid  
24.10.2025 at 03:00 Hrs (IST) 
Date & Time of Opening of Price Bid Shall be intimated separately after 
opening of Techno-Commercial 
proposal      
Cost of Bidding Documents INR 9000 
Estimated Cost of Work INR 230.07 Crores 
(excluding GST) 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for
updated bidding schedule of the Tender.
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if 
applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC”. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 2,00,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Two Crores only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
Documents.  
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable Bid Security shall be rejected by 
Employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.  
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any in terested 
Bidder from the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited 
under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on  the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class- 
3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have 
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participa te in e-tendering. 
Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from agencies authorized by 
Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals w ith detailed 
 
 
  
CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR NABINAGAR STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-0371-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
3 OF 4 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding proces s including Bidder 
Manual for online fee payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY 
at the e- tendering portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders:  
The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at 
Annexure-I to IFB.  
8.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess 
the capabilities and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ 
subsidiaries/ group companies to perform the contract, should t he circumstances 
warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
9.0 Employer reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel /withdraw the 
Invitation for Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and  in such case no 
bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
10.0  
'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders 
may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding do cuments in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
11.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender o nly if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specif ied Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to  bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which t he Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged 
in development projects. 
12.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of  Bid shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified. 
13.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder  to another is 
not permissible. 
14.0 With reference to Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small  Enterprises 
(MSEs) Order, 2012, MSE benefit not applicable. 
15.0 Address for Communication:  
 
 
  
CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR NABINAGAR STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-0371-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
4 OF 4 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
Sr Manager(CS)/ AGM(CS)   
NTPC LTD. 
Sixth Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
Plot A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,   
Distt.-Gautam Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh,   
PIN-201307, India  
 
Tele. No. +91-120-494-6520/ 6550  
e-mail: abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in / ravikumar04@ntpc.co.in   
 
Websites: www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in or   
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
  
16.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited,  
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, 
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
ANNEXURE-A WR ,)%
SHEET 1 OF 6 
CS-0371-317A-9
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR
CHIMNEY PACKAGE
NABINAGAR STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW)
In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under section ITB (Instruction To Bidder), 
the Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in clauses 
1.0.0 and clause 2.0.0.
1.0.0 Technical Criteria
1.1.0 Route 1:
The Bidder should have completed at least one (1) number Reinforced Concrete Chimney of 
minimum 100 meters height with steel flues using slipform equipment in the preceding seven 
(7) years prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.
1.2.0 Route 2:
(i) The Bidder should have executed at least 23000 m3 of concreting and 1300 MT of
Structural Steel work in any one (1) year in the preceding seven (7) years prior to the
date of Techno-commercial bid opening.
(ii) The Bidder shall collaborate/a ssociate with a Party/Agency meeting requirements of
1.1.0 above. In such a case, the Bidder along with its techno-c ommercial bid, shall
furnish a ‘Letter of Support’ from the collaborator/associate, as per format enclosed
in the bidding documents for successful performance of Chimney,  failing which the
bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected.
1.3.0 Route 3:
Bidder shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of two (2) corporate entities and shall 
collectively meet the qualifying requirements stipulated at (i) & (ii) below.
Of the two (2) consortium partners, each shall necessarily be required to meet atleast one of 
the following requirements:
(i) Chimney Construction Agency, having completed at least one (1) number Reinforced
Concrete Chimney of minimum 100 meters height with steel flues using slipform
equipment in the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of  Techno-commercial
bid opening.
(ii) Civil Construction Agency / EPC vendor, having executed at l east 23000 m 3 of
concreting and 1300 MT of Structural Steel work in any one (1) year in the preceding
seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.
The Consortium partners shall identify one of the partners as the “lead partner”. 
ANNEXURE-A 
SHEET 2 OF 6 
 
 
 
 
 
CS-0371-317A-9 
 
 
The Consortium will be required to furnish a legally enforceabl e Consortium Agreement 
among all partners along with Techno-commercial Bid holding the mselves responsible and 
liable to the Owner to perform all contractual obligations related to their respective scope as 
declared in Consortium Agreement (limited joint and several responsibility), valid for a period 
of seven (7) years from the date of formation of the Consortium  or up to the end of defect 
liability period of the contract whichever is later, as per the  format enclosed in the bidding 
documents. However, the lead partner of the consortium shall be  jointly & severally 
responsible and liable to the Owner to perform all contractual obligations including the 
contractual obligations of all ot her consortium partners. Submi ssion of Consortium 
Agreement is a mandatory requir ement, and non-submission shall lead to rejection of the 
bid.  
 Notes for clause 1.1.0, 1.2.0 & 1.3.0 
(i) The Bidder / Collaborator / Associate / Consortium Partner should have achieved the 
criteria specified in the qualif ying requirements within the pr eceding seven (7) year 
period even if the contract has been started earlier and /or is not completed / closed. 
(ii) Reference work executed by the Bidder and collaborator/ass ociate as a sub-
contractor may also be considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor 
is duly certified by Project Owner specifying the scope of work  executed by the sub-
contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
Notes for 1.3.0 
(i) Consortium partners should be corporate entities registered  in India under the 
Companies Act 2013.  
(ii) Consortium partners shall collec tively be required to furnish “ Contract Performance 
Security” as specified in bidding documents regardless of their share and role in the 
Consortium. However, out of total “Contract Performance Security”, each Consortium 
partner shall necessarily furnish at least 5% of the “Contract Performance Security” 
as specified in bidding documents.  
(iii) Consortium partners (including the lead partner) shall co llectively be required to 
submit additional Bank Guarantees (BGs) for a total amount of 2 % of total contract 
price as specified in bidding documents for successful integrat ion of scope of 
package. However, each Consortium partner shall necessarily fur nish Bank 
Guarantees (BGs) for at least 0.1% of the total contract price for successful 
integration/interfacing.  
(iv) No Consortium partner shall participate as an independent bidder, or as partner of 
other Consortium or as an Associate /Collaborator to other bidd er. No Consortium 
partner shall also be a promoter/stakeholder of any other entit y who is 
directly/indirectly participating in the bidding process. Notwi thstanding stated herein 
above, the provisions regarding conflict of interest stated in bidding documents shall 
prevail.  
(v) The Lead partner shall be authorized to incur liabilities a nd receive instructions for 
and on behalf of any and all partners of the Consortium.  
ANNEXURE-A 
SHEET 3 OF 6 
 
 
 
 
 
CS-0371-317A-9 
 
 
2.0.0 Financial Criteria 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder (Except for Consortium as per Route 1.3.0) 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the precedi ng three (3) financial years as on 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less t han INR 67.0 Crores (INR 
Sixty Seven Crores Only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulat ed turnover requirements 
as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company a s on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required  to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding  Company, supported by 
the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.1.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the  bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year as on the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening.  In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet 
the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsi diary (ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of its Holding company wherever  applicable. In such a 
case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the H olding Company, in combined man ner should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their 
Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of  their respective paid up 
share capitals. 
 Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be l ess than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited fin ancial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolida ted financial statements of the  Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following further documents for substantiation 
of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolid ated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated financial statements o f the Holding 
Company. 
ANNEXURE-A 
SHEET 4 OF 6 
 
 
 
 
 
CS-0371-317A-9 
 
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is n ot able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Ch artered Accountant certifying i ts financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding docu ments stating that the 
Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date  of Techno-commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
2.2.0 Financial Criteria for the Collaborator/Associate  
2.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Collaborator/Associate , in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening , should not be less than 
INR 6.7 Crores (INR Six Crores Seventy Lacs Only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case the Collaborator/Associate does not satisfy the average  annual turnover criteria 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet  the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company, as on the last 
day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital 
of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Collaborator/Associate would be required to 
furnish along with bidder's Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by Board Resolution of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding docume nts, pledging unconditional and  irrevocable financial 
support to the Collaborator/Associate to honour the terms and conditions of the Undertaking 
in case of award of the Contract to the Bidder with whom Collab orator/Associate is 
associated.  
2.2.2 The Net Worth of Collaborator/Associate, as on the last d ay of the preceding financial year 
as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening should not be l ess than 100% (hundred 
percent) of its paid-up share capital. In case the Collaborator /Associate does not meet the 
Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength 
of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies 
wherever applicable. In such a c ase, however the Net worth of t he Collaborator/Associate 
and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiar y(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundr ed percent) of their 
total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% 
(seventy five percent) of their respective paid up share capitals. 
 Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be l ess than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.2.3 In case the Collaborator/Associate is not able to furnish  its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial  statements of the 
ANNEXURE-A 
SHEET 5 OF 6 
 
 
 
 
 
CS-0371-317A-9 
 
 
Collaborator/Associate can be con sidered acceptable provided th e Collaborator/Associate 
furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  o f  t h e  
Collaborator/Associate along with copies of the audited consoli dated financial 
statements of the Holding Company of Collaborator/Associate.  
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsol idated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company 
of Collaborator/Associate.  
In cases where audited results f or the last financial year as o n the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results  certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Collaborator/Associate is not 
able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Acco untant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considere d for evaluating the financial  parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the p racticing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
2.3.0    Financial Criteria for the Consortium (as per Route 1.3.0) 
2.3.1 The average annual turnover of the consortium collectivel y, in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening , should not be less than 
INR 67.0 Crores (INR Sixty Seven Crores Only) or in equivalent foreign currency.  
Further, average annual turnover of the lead partner of the consortium in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid ope ning shall not be less than 
51% of the total annual turnover requirement specified for consortium as above. Further, 
other Consortium Partner should individually meet at least 10% of the total annual 
turnover requirement specified for consortium as above. 
For meeting financial criteria, all the Consortium partners shall consider the same set of three 
consecutive Financial Years. 
2.3.2 Net worth of each Consortium partner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of it’s 
paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding finan cial year. In case any 
c o n s o r t i u m  p a r t n e r  d o e s  n o t  m e e t  t h e  N e t  w o r t h  c r i t e r i a  o n  i t s  own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiar y(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, 
however the Net worth of the consortium partner and its Subsidi ary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combi ned manner should not 
be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up shar e capital. However 
individually, their Net worth sh ould not be less than 75% (seve nty five percent) of their 
respective paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
ANNEXURE-A 
SHEET 6 OF 6 
 
 
 
 
 
CS-0371-317A-9 
 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be l ess than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.3.3 In case any consortium partner is not able to furnish its  a u d i t e d  f i n a n c i a l  s t a t e m e n t s  o n  
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium 
partner can be considered accept able provided the consortium pa rtner furnishes the 
following further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the consortium 
partner along with copies of the audited consolidated financial  statements of the 
Holding Company of the consortium partner. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsol idated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company 
of the consortium partner. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as o n the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results  certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, the consortium partner(s) is 
not able to submit the Certifica te from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the 
last financial year shall be con sidered for evaluating the fina ncial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the p racticing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for clause 2.0.0 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of th e assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted o r written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be c onsidered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary" shall have the meaning  ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act, 2013. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exc hange rate as on seven (7) 
days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 