NTPC LIMITED  
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENTS 
 
FOR 
 
 
"Burner Management System Retrofitting 
Package for Vindhyachal STPP St-I (6X210MW)"  
 
 
 
SECTION – I, II, III, IV, V 
 
 
              
                                  BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-2220-425-9 

NTPC LIMITED  
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENTS 
 
FOR 
 
“Burner Management System Retrofitting Package 
for Vindhyachal STPP St-I (6X210MW)”   
Stage-II (3x800 MW) 
 
 
SECTION – I, II, III, IV, V 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-2220-425-9 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against this Bid Document 
No. / Specification and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise used for 
purposes other than that  for  which  it  is  specifically  issued). 
 

BIDDING DOCUMENTS 
FOR 
"Burner Management System Retrofitting 
Package for Vindhyachal STPP St-I (6X210MW)"  
  
                            BID DOCUMENT NO. : CS-2220-425-9 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Section I – Invitation for Bids (IFB) 
Section II – Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
Section III – Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
Section IV – General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
Section V – Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
Section VI – Technical Specifications (TS) 
Section VII – Forms and Procedures (FP) 
 
Section-VII (Part 1 of 2) 
 
1a.       Envelope-I (Techno-Commercial) (Bid Form along with Attachments) 
 
1b.  Envelope-II (Price) (Price attachments and Price Schedules) 
 
Section-VII (Part 2 of 2) 
 
2. Bid Security Form - Bank Guarantee                               
 
2a. Bid Security Form - Insurance Surety Bond 
 
2b.      Bid Security Form - Bank Guarantee 
in case of Bid from Joint Venture          NOT APPLICABLE 
 
2c. Bid Security Form - Letter of Credit                                     NOT APPLICABLE 
 
3 (a) Form of Notification by the Employer to the Bidder NOT APPLICABLE 
 
(b) Form of Sight Draft                                                   NOT APPLICABLE 
 
4. Forms of Notification of Award 
 
5. Form of Contract Agreement 
 
6. Performance Security Form- Bank Guarantee 
 
6a. Performance Security Form in case  
of Contract awarded to Joint Venture                                  NOT APPLICABLE 
 
  6b.      Performance Security Form- Insurance Surety Bond  
 
6c.      Performance Security Form - Insurance Surety Bond  
            in case of Contract awarded to Joint Venture                      NOT APPLICABLE 
 
7(i). Bank Guarantee Form for Advance 
Payment (Supply Ex-Works) 
 
7(ii). Bank Guarantee Form for Advance Payment 
(Installation Services/Structural works/Civil 
works) 
 
7(iii). Bank Guarantee Form for Advance Payment  
 (in case of Contract awarded to Joint Venture)   NOT APPLICABLE 
 
8. Form of Completion Certificate 
 
9. Form of Operational Acceptance Certificate 
 
10. Form of Trust Receipt 
 
11. Forms of Indemnity-cum-Undertaking Agreements (2 Nos.) 
 
12. Form of Authorization Letter 
 
13. Form of Deed of Joint Undertaking     
 
14. Form of Bank Guarantee by Associate/ Collaborator   
 
15. Form of Joint Venture Agreement      NOT APPLICABLE 
 
16. Form of Bank Guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond Verification Check List 
 
17. Form of Extension of Bank Guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond 
 
18. Form of Indemnity-cum-Undertaking 
Agreement (for Removal of Surplus 
Material and scraps) 
 
19. Form of Contract Closing Certificates 
 
20. Forms of Absence of Conflict of Interest 
 
21. BG forwarding letter from Bank to Unified Treasury in Bank’s letterhead 
 
22. Certificate from Bank regarding BG charges 
 
 
Acronyms 
 
 
 
BDS Bid Data Sheet 
 
CIF Cost, Insurance and Freight 
 
CIP Carriage and Insurance paid to (place) 
 
CPM Critical Path Method 
 
EDI Electronic Data Interchange 
 
EXW Ex factory, ex works or ex warehouse  
FCA Free Carrier 
FOB Free on Board 
 
FOR Free on Rail / Road 
 
FP Forms & Procedures 
 
GCC General Conditions of Contract 
 
ICC International Chamber of Commerce 
 
IFB Invitation for Bids 
 
ITB Instructions to Bidders 
 
SCC Special Conditions of Contract 
 
TS Technical Specifications and Drawings 
 
UNCITRAL United Nations Commission on International Trade Law 
INCOTERMS International Rules for Interpreting Trade Terms 
DISCOMS Electricity Distribution Companies 
GST Goods and Services Tax 
 
C-Folder Collaboration Folder of E-Tender Portal 
 
Note : The terms EXW, CIF, etc. shall be governed by the rules prescribed 
in the current edition of INCOTERMS, published by the International 
Chamber of Commerce, Paris, France.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            SECTION  - I 
INVITATION   FOR   BIDS  (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Burner Management System Retrofitting Package for Vindhyachal 
STPP St-I (6X210MW)"; BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-2220-425-9 
 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
PAGE 
1 OF 3 
 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
EOC NOIDA 
    INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
"Burner Management System Retrofitting Package for Vindhyachal STPP St-I (6X210MW)" 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No: 2025_NTPC_100400 
 
Bidding Document No: CS-2220-425-9            Date: 19.09.2025 
 
          1.0      NTPC Limited invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: 
Techno-Commercial and Envelope -II: Price)  from eligible Bidders for  "Burner 
Management System Retrofitting Package for Vindhyachal STPP St -I (6X210MW)", 
as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
  
The Brief scope of work as per the specifications and scope defined in the bidding 
documents of the Burner Management System Retrofitting package includes the following: 
 
A. Ignitors, Coal & Oil Scanners  
B. Oil and Air Nozzle Tips, Boiler Coal Nozzle Tips, Boiler Oil Compartment front cover        
plate 
C. Complete replacement of existing main HFO control station and Corner control units 
D. New HFO / Steam Atomization System, Drain Oil tanks for each boiler  
E. New Oil Gun Assemblies, guide pipes for ignitor and guns  
F. Oil Gun Cleaning Station  
G. 2 nos. cooling air fan per Boiler  
H. Work related to burner tilting and SADC 
I. Boiler Miscellaneous works – Thermal Performance Test (TPT),  Insulation and 
Cladding in Wind box area, Burner panel modification / replacement / repair as per 
site condition , Refractory where-ever required, Boiler tube bends for insertion of 
flame TV scanner, Instrument air piping etc.  
J. Associated civil and electrical works. 
K. DDCMIS system for Burner Management System (BMS) including logics and 
operation of equipment supplied under this package as well as existing Boiler Fuel 
firing equipment used for Coal and Oil firing and associated auxiliaries such as Mills, 
Fans, Valves, dampers and gates, burner tilt etc. 
L. Boiler Protection System  
M. Master & slave clock system 
N. Measuring Instruments, associated process connection and piping, LIE/LIR & 
Junction Boxes 
O. 24 V DC charger  
P. Instrumentation cables, Power cables & Cable tray 
Q. Control valve and actuators, smart positioner for SADC & Burner Tilt  
R. Boiler flame monitoring camera   
 
The scope of supply and service for the package shall include design, engineering, 
manufacture, supply, inspection and testing at supplier’s works, packing and 
transportation to site, receipt, unloading, storage, preservation, handling and 
conservation of the equipment at site, pre -assembly (if any), erection, pre -
"Burner Management System Retrofitting Package for Vindhyachal 
STPP St-I (6X210MW)"; BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-2220-425-9
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
PAGE 
2 OF 3 
commissioning, testing, commissioning, trial operation, reliability tests and 
performance and guarantee tests including tests for performance demonstration of 
the equipments/systems (if any)  and the supply of mandatory spares for the 
complete package.  
3.0  NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) 
at website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB 22.09.2025
Document Download start date 22.09.2025
Pre-Bid Conference and 14.10.2025 at 1100 hrs. (IST)
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if 
any) * 
22.10.2025
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
03.11.2025 up to 15:00 hrs. (IST)
Date & Time for opening of Envelop-I 
(Techno-Commercial bid) 
04.11.2025 at 15:00 hrs. (IST)
Date & Time for opening of Envelop-II (Price 
bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR INR 22,500/- 
*No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the
last date of receipt of Queries as specified above.
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 2,00,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Two Crores only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON -RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID 
SECURITY IS SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), 
BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
5.1 Acceptable Tender Fee payment proof shall be uploaded by all the bidder in the “Fee 
Cover” at the GePNIC Portal. 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is Attached as Annexure-I. 
7.0    Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT  (Department for Promotion of 
Industry and Internal Trade) . The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
 
 
"Burner Management System Retrofitting Package for Vindhyachal 
STPP St-I (6X210MW)"; BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-2220-425-9 
 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
PAGE 
3 OF 3 
 
7.1 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, 
will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from  those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has 
extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development 
projects.  
 
8.0    Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
9.0  Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe that bidder is considered 
qualified. 
 
10.0  Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the Bidder / its Collaborators / Associates / Subsidiaries / 
Group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
 
11.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
(IFB) for the subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case 
no bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
12.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited under e -tendering process. 
The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  using the 
option “online Bidder Enrolment”. The said website also has the detailed guidelines on 
enrollment and participation in the bidding process including Bidder Manual for online fee 
payment. 
 
13.0 Address for Communication 
 
DGM (CS)/ AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited 
 6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301, 
State of U.P., India 
Contact: 0120-494 6539/6526 
E-mail  : psesharao@ntpc.co.in / 
vbtotle@ntpc.co.in  
 
 Websites :  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  or  
   www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  or www.ntpc.co.in 
14.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, 
Institutional Area, Lodi Road,   
 New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
Page 1 of 5 
 
  
 
Approved Qualifying Requirements for Burner Management System Retrofitting 
Package for NTPC Vindhyachal STPP Stage -I (6X210 MW) 
 
In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under Section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the 
Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements for R&M (Renovation and 
Modernisation) Package stipulated hereunder in clauses 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 or 1.4.0 (as 
applicable), and 2.0.0 : 
 
1.0        Technical Criteria  
 
1.1.0      Route-1: 
 
The bidder should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got manufactured, erected/ 
supervised erection, and commissioned/ supervised commissioning of at least one 
number of pulverized coal fired steam generator rated for a minimum of 160 MWe size or 
minimum 520 T/Hr steaming capacity, which should have been in successful operation 
for a period not less than one (1) year prior to the date of Techno Commercial bid opening. 
 
1.2.0      Route-2: (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) 
1.2.1       The Bidder should have executed, in the last 10 years from the last day of month previous 
to one in which NIT has been invited, industrial project(s) on EPC basis (with or without 
civil works) in the area of Power / Steel / Oil & Gas/ Petro-chemical/ Fertilizer/ Cement / 
Flue Gas Desulphurization and/or any other process industry with the total value of such 
projects being ₹135 Crores or more. At least one of such projects (in single or multiple 
contract(s)) should have a total contract value of ₹ 55 Crores or more. 
 
These project(s) should have been in successful operation for a period of not less than 
one (01) year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
1.2.2  The Bidder shall associate/collaborate with a company meeting the requirements 
stipulated at clause 1.1.0 above. 
 
1.2.3 The Bidder shall be required to furnish a letter of support from the associate/collaborator 
company meeting the requirements stipulated at clause 1.1.0 above for successful 
performance of the Burner Management System package as per the format enclosed with 
the bidding documents, and valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the end of defect 
liability period of the contract whichever is later. The Letter of Support shall be submitted 
along with the techno commercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, and its 
bid shall be rejected. 
 
1.3.0     Route-3: (Holding Company) 
 
In case the Bidder is an Indian Holding Company meeting the requirements stipulated under 
clause 1.1.0 on the strength of collective experience of itself and its subsidiary(ies), then 
the Bidder shall be required to submit a letter of support from all such subsidiaries for 
successful performance of the Burner Management System package  as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, and valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the 
end of defect liability period of the contract whichever is later. The Letter of Support shall 
be submitted along  with the techno commercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be 
disqualified and its bid shall be rejected.  The involved subsidiary(ies) shall remain a 
                     Annexure-I 
(Page 1  of  5)
Page 2 of 5 
 
subsidiary company of its holding company for a minimum period of 7 years from the date 
of incorporation of such subsidiary company or up to the end of the defect liability period of 
the contract whichever is later.  
 
1.4.0     Route 4: (Consortium) 
 
Bidder shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of two (2) corporate entities and 
shall collectively meet the qualifying requirements stipulated at (i) & (ii) below.  
 
Of the two (2) consortium partners, each shall necessarily be required to meet atleast one 
or more of the following requirements:-  
 
(i) The Partner should be meeting requirement stipulated at clause 1.1.0. 
(ii) The Partner should be meeting requirement stipulated at clause 1.2.1. 
The Consortium partners shall identify one of the partners as the “lead partner”. The 
Consortium will be required to furnish a legally enforceable Consortium Agreement among 
all partners along with Techno-commercial Bid holding themselves responsible and liable to 
the Owner to perform all contractual obligations related to their respective scope as declared 
in Consortium Agreement (limited joint and several responsibility), valid for a period of seven 
(7) years from the date of formation of the Consortium or up to the end of defect liability 
period of the contract whichever is later, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents. However, the lead partner of the consortium shall be jointly & severally 
responsible and liable to the Owner to perform all contractual obligations including the 
contractual obligations of all other consortium partners. Submission of Consortium 
Agreement is a mandatory requirement, and non-submission shall lead to rejection of the 
bid. 
 
 Notes to clause 1.1.0, 1.2.0 ,1.3.0 and 1.4.0 
 
1. Whenever the term 'coal fired' is appearing above, "Coal" shall be deemed to also include 
bituminous coal/sub-bituminous coal/brown coal / lignite. 
2. The value of executed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at current 
price level by adding 5% for each year on pro-rata basis after the end date of 
completion/execution/commissioning of the reference work, till the last day of month 
previous to one in which NIT has been invited. The specified value of executed works is 
excluding any taxes and duties. 
3.   The word “executed” in Clause 1.2.0 means: 
a. In case of Project(s), the project(s) should have been commissioned/ completed, even 
if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not completed / closed. 
b. In case of Contract(s), the scope of work under the contract(s) should have been 
commissioned/completed, even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not 
closed. 
4.   Bidder and Consortium partners should be corporate entities registered in India under            
the Companies Act 2013. 
 
 
(Page 2  of  5)
Page 3 of 5 
 
Notes for 1.4.0 
(i) Consortium partners shall collectively be required to furnish “Contract Performance 
Security” as specified in bidding documents regardless of their share and role in the 
Consortium. However, out of total “Contract Performance Security”, each Consortium partner 
shall necessarily furnish at least 5% of the “Contract Performance Security” as specified in 
bidding documents. 
(ii) Consortium partners (including the lead partner) shall collectively be required to submit 
additional Bank Guarantees (BGs) for a total amount of 2% of total contract price as specified 
in bidding documents for successful integration of scope of package. However, each 
Consortium partner shall necessarily furnish Bank Guarantees (BGs) for at least 0.1% of the 
total contract price for successful integration/interfacing. 
(iii) No Consortium partner shall participate as an independent bidder, or as partner of other 
Consortium or as an Associate /Collaborator to other bidder. No Consortium partner shall also 
be a promoter/stakeholder of any other entity who is directly/indirectly participating in the 
bidding process. Notwithstanding stated herein above, the provisions regarding conflict of 
interest stated in bidding documents shall prevail. 
(iv) The Lead partner shall be authorized to incur liabilities and receive instructions for and on 
behalf of any and all partners of the Consortium. 
2.0.0 Financial Criteria: 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
2.1.1  The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 56 Crores (Rupees Fifty 
Six Crores only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by 
the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.1.2  Bidder should have Positive Net Worth as on the last day of the preceding financial year. 
 
2.1.3  In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of 
its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate 
(Page 3  of  5)
Page 4 of 5 
 
from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results 
of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and 
the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is 
not available. 
 
2.2.0    Financial Criteria for the Collaborator / Associate 
 
2.2.1   The average annual turnover of the collaborator/ Associate, in the preceding three (3)   financial 
years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 5.5 Crore 
(Rupees Five Crores and Fifty lakhs only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
 
In case the Collaborator/Associate does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria above 
on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company, as on the last 
day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital 
of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Collaborator/Associate would be required to 
furnish along with bidder's Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by Board Resolution of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support 
to the Collaborator/Associate to honour the terms and conditions of the letter of support in 
case of award of the Contract to the Bidder with whom Collaborator/Associate is associated. 
 
2.2.2  Each Collaborator/ Associate should have Positive Net Worth as on the last day of the            
preceding financial year. 
 
2.2.3      In case the Collaborator / Associate is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Collaborator/ Associate can be considered acceptable provided the Collaborator/ Associate 
furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator/    
Associate along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company of Collaborator / Associate. 
(ii)  A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of 
Collaborator/Associate. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Collaborator/Associate is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
 
 
(Page 4  of  5)
Page 5 of 5 
 
2.3.0   Financial Criteria for the Consortium (as per Route 1.4.0)  
 
 2.3.1    The average annual turnover of the consortium collectively, in the preceding three (3) financial  
years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 56 Crores 
(Rupees Fifty Six Crores only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
Further, average annual turnover of the lead partner of the consortium in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall not be less than 
51% of the total annual turnover requirement specified for consortium as above. Further, other 
Consortium Partner should individually meet at least 10% of the total annual turnover 
requirement specified for consortium as above.  
For meeting financial criteria, all the Consortium partners shall consider the same set of three 
consecutive Financial Years.  
 
2.3.2  Each Consortium partner should have Positive Net Worth as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year. 
 
2.3.3 In case any consortium partner is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium 
partner can be considered acceptable provided the consortium partner furnishes the following 
further documents on substantiation of its qualification:  
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium partner 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company of the consortium partner.  
(ii)  A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of 
the consortium partner.  
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, the consortium partner(s) is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
NOTES: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning ascribed to them 
as per Companies Act, 2013. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) 
days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
(Page 5  of  5)