CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR GADARWARA STPP STAGE-II (2X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-8014-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
1 OF 4 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
NTPC Limited  
(A GOVT. OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 FOR 
 CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR GADARWARA STPP STAGE-II (2X800 MW) 
LOCATED AT 
Post Office-Gangai, Thana - Chichli,  
Tehsil-Gadarwara, Dist. - Narsinghpur 
Madhya Pradesh-487001 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No.:  2025_NTPC_100521_1   Date:23.09.2025 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:   CS-8014-317A-9 
1.0 NTPC invites online bids at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) 
at website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding 
basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from 
eligible bidders for or aforesaid package, as per the scope of work  briefly 
mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
THE BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK UNDER THIS PACKAGE SHALL INCLUDE THE 
FOLLOWING : 
 Design, Engineering, supply, construction/erection/installation (including all 
associated mechanical, electrical, civil and C&I works) of the following: 
-1 No. Twin Flue Reinforced concrete chimney shell (using slipform
equipment) over a reinforced concrete foundation including
excavation in all types of soils including rocks, dewatering and
backfilling and piling works.
-Internal structural steel platforms; a reinforced concrete roof slab
supported over structural steel beams; a grade level floor slab with
metallic hardener finish.
-MS Flue liner including insulation up to Terminal point, Mini Shell,
Expansion Compensators, Probes and Sleeves for Instrumentation
etc. complete.
-Internal structural steel staircase and ladders.
-Roll-up door and personnel access doors at the grade level.
-Roof drainage system.
CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR GADARWARA STPP STAGE-II (2X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-8014-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
2 OF 4 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
-Painting of chimney shell surfaces and painting/coating of all
structural steel work and other components.
-Rack & pinion Elevator including mandatory spares
-Aviation obstruction lighting system, lightning & earthing protection
system, Internal lighting, cables & wiring, distribution boards and
lighting panels , communication system and other electrical
accessories.
-Access road up to chimney, paving & peripheral drain around
chimney
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the subject package through Domestic / Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the 
bidding documents, which are available  at the GePNIC (e -tender) portal at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ . The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under: 
Issuance of IFB 23.09.2025
Documents Download Dates & 
Timings 
23.09.2025
Pre-Bid Conference date & time 08.10.2025 
Last Date for receipt of Queries from 
prospective Bidders (if any)** 
10.10.2025 
Bid Submission Start Date and Time 
(both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
27.10.2025, 11:00 hrs. (IST) 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and 
Price) receipt date & time 
03.11.2025 at 03:00 hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-
Commercial Bid  
04.10.2025 at 03:00 Hrs (IST) 
Date & Time of Opening of Price Bid  Shall be intimated separately after 
opening of Techno-Commercial 
proposal     
Cost of Bidding Documents INR 9000 
Estimated Cost of Work INR 136.74 Crores 
(excluding GST) 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e -tender) portal of NTPC for
updated bidding schedule of the Tender.
 
 
  
CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR GADARWARA STPP STAGE-II (2X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-8014-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
3 OF 4 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if 
applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC”. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 2,00,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees  Two Crores only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
Documents.  
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable Bid Security shall be rejected by 
Employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.  
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at 
Annexure-I to IFB.  
7.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess 
the capabilities and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ 
subsidiaries/ group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances 
warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
8.0 Employer reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the 
Invitation for Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested 
Bidder from the e -Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited 
under e -tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ . The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-
3 key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have 
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. 
Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC C lass-3 key from agencies authorized by 
Govt. of India. The e -Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process  including Bidder 
Manual for online fee payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY 
at the e- tendering portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
10.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders 
may apprise t hemselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
11.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of  
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a  land 
 
 
  
CHIMNEY PACKAGE FOR GADARWARA STPP STAGE-II (2X800 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-8014-317A-9 
SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
4 OF 4 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from  those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the  Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged 
in development projects. 
12.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified. 
13.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is 
not permissible. 
14.0 With reference to Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises 
(MSEs) Order, 2012, MSE benefit not applicable. 
15.0 Address for Communication: 
Sr Manager(CS)/ AGM(CS)   
NTPC LTD. 
Sixth Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
Plot A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,   
Distt.-Gautam Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh,   
PIN-201307, India  
 
Tele. No. +91-120-494-8503/6520 
Mobile: 6202628480 /9650992301 
e-mail: lekrajsingh@ntpc.co.in / abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in  
 
Websites: www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in or   
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
  
16.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited,  
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, 
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
ANNEXURE-1 to IFB 
SHEET 1 OF 6 
CS-8014-317A-9 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR 
CHIMNEY PACKAGE 
GADARWARA STPP, STAGE-II (2X800 MW) 
In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under section ITB (Instruction To Bidder), 
the Bidder should also meet the technical qualifying requirements stipulated in clauses 
1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 and financial requirements as stipulated in clause 2.0.0. 
1.0.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1.0 Route 1: 
The Bidder should have completed at least one (1) number Reinforced Concrete Chimney of 
minimum 100 meters height with steel flues using slipform equipment in the preceding seven 
(7) years prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.
1.2.0 Route 2: 
(i) The Bidder should have executed at least 17000 m3 of concreting and 1000 MT of
Structural Steel work in any one (1) year in the preceding seven (7) years prior to the
date of Techno-commercial bid opening.
(ii) The Bidder shall collaborate/associate with a Party/Agency meeting requirements of
1.1.0 above. In such a case, the Bidder along with its techno -commercial bid, shall
furnish a ‘Letter of Support’ from the collaborator/associate, as per format enclosed
in the biddin g documents for successful performance of Chimney, failing which the
bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected.
1.3.0 Route 3: 
Bidder shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of two (2) corporate entities and shall 
collectively meet the qualifying requirements stipulated at (i) & (ii) below.  
Of the two (2) consortium partners, each shall necessarily be required to meet atleast one of 
the following requirements: 
(i) Chimney Construction Agency, having completed at least one (1) number Reinforced
Concrete Chimney of minimum 100 meters height with steel flues using slipform
equipment in the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno -commercial
bid opening.
(ii) Civil Construction Agency / EPC vendor , having  executed at least 17000 m 3 of
concreting and 1000 MT of Structural Steel work in any one (1) year in the preceding
seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.
The Consortium partners shall identify one of the partners as the “lead partner”. 
ANNEXURE-1 to IFB 
SHEET 2 OF 6 
CS-8014-317A-9 
The Consortium will be required to furnish a legally enforceable Consortium Agreement 
among all partners along with Techno -commercial Bid holding themselves responsible and 
liable to the Owner to perform all contractual obligations related to their respective scope as 
declared in Consortium Agreement (limited joint and several responsibility), valid for a period 
of seven (7) years from the date of formation of the Consortium or up to the end of defect 
liability period of the contract whichever is later, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents. However, the lead partner of the consortium shall be jointly & severally 
responsible and liable to the Owner to perform all contractual obligations including the 
contractual obligations of all other consort ium partners. Submission of Consortium 
Agreement is a mandatory requirement, and non -submission shall lead to rejection of the 
bid.  
Notes for clause 1.1.0, 1.2.0 & 1.3.0 
(i) The Bidder / Collaborator / Associate / Consortium Partner should have achieved the
criteria specified in the qualifying requirements within the preceding seven (7) year
period even if the contract has been started earlier and /or is not completed / closed.
(ii) Reference work executed by the Bidder and collaborator/associate as a sub -
contractor may also be considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor
is duly certified by Project Owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub -
contractor in support of qualifying requirements.
Notes for 1.3.0 
(i) Consortium partners should be corporate entities registered in India under the
Companies Act 2013.
(ii) Consortium partners shall collectively be required to furnish “Contract Performance
Security” as specified in bidding documents regardless of their share and role in the
Consortium. However, out of total “Contract Performance Security”, each Consortium
partner shall necessarily furnish at least 5% of the  “Contract Performance Security”
as specified in bidding documents.
(iii) Consortium partners (including the lead partner) shall collectively be required to
submit additional Bank Guarantees (BGs) for a total amount of 2% of total contract
price as specified in bidding documents for successful integration of scope of
package. Ho wever, each Consortium partner shall necessarily furnish Bank
Guarantees (BGs) for at least 0.1% of the total contract price for successful
integration/interfacing.
(iv) No Consortium partner shall participate as an independent bidder, or as partner of
other Consortium or as a n Associate /Collaborator to other bidder. No Consortium
partner shall also be a promoter/stakeholder of any other entity who is
directly/indirectly participating in the bidding process. Notwithstanding stated herein
above, the provisions regarding conflict of interest stated in bidding documents shall
prevail.
(v) The Lead partner shall be authorized to incur liabilities and receive instructions for
and on behalf of any and all partners of the Consortium.
ANNEXURE-1 to IFB 
SHEET 3 OF 6 
CS-8014-317A-9 
2.0.0 Financial Criteria 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder (Except for Consortium as per Route 1.3.0) 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than INR 44.0 Crores (INR 
Forty Four Crores Only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements 
as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to o r more than the paid up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by 
the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.1.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year as on the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening.  In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet 
the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of its Holding company wherever applicable. In such a 
case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their 
Net worth should not be less than 75% (s eventy five percent) of their respective paid up 
share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following further documents for substantiation 
of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial
statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding
Company.
ANNEXURE-1 to IFB 
SHEET 4 OF 6 
CS-8014-317A-9 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able t o submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the 
Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
2.2.0 Financial Criteria for the Collaborator/Associate 
2.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Collaborator/ Associate, in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
INR 4.4 Crores (INR Four Crores Forty Lacs Only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case the Collaborator/Associate does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company, as on the last 
day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital 
of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Collaborator/Associate would be required to 
furnish along with bidder's Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by Board Resolution of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support to the Collaborator/Associate to honour the terms and conditions of the Undertaking 
in case of award of the Contract to the Bidder with whom Collaborator/Associate is 
associated.  
2.2.2 The Net Worth of Collaborator/Associate, as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of its paid-up share capital. In case the Collaborator/Associate does  not meet the 
Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength 
of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies 
wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Ne t worth of the Collaborator/Associate 
and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their 
total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% 
(seventy five percent) of their respective paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.2.3 In case the Collaborator/Associate is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
ANNEXURE-1 to IFB 
SHEET 5 OF 6 
CS-8014-317A-9 
Collaborator/Associate can be considered acceptable provided the Collaborator/Associate 
furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the
Collaborator/Associate along with copies of the audited consolidated financial
statements of the Holding Company of Collaborator/Associate.
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed
with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial
statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company
of Collaborator/Associate.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Collaborator/Associate is not 
able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial  parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date 
of Techno -commercial bid opening and the Certificate  from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
2.3.0    Financial Criteria for the Consortium (as per Route 1.3.0) 
2.3.1 The average annual turnover of the consortium collectively, in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
INR 44.0 Crores (INR Forty Four Crores Only) or in equivalent foreign currency.  
Further, average annual turnover of the lead partner of the consortium in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening shall not be less than
51% of the total annual turnover requirement specified for consortium as above. Further,
other C onsortium Partner should individually meet at least 10% of  the total annual
turnover requirement specified for consortium as above.
For meeting financial criteria, all the Consortium partners shall consider the same set of three 
consecutive Financial Years. 
2.3.2 Net worth of each Consortium partner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of it’s 
paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case any 
consortium partner does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it c an meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, 
however the Net worth of the consortium partner and its Subsidiary(ie s) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not 
be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five  percent) of their 
respective paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
ANNEXURE-1 to IFB 
SHEET 6 OF 6 
CS-8014-317A-9 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.3.3 In case any consortium partner is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium 
partner can be considered acceptable provided the consortium partne r furnishes the 
following further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium
partner along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the
Holding Company of the consortium partner.
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed
with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial
statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company
of the consortium partner.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, the consortium partner(s) is 
not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the 
last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financ ial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date 
of Techno -commercial bid opening and the Certific ate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for clause 2.0.0 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any,
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary" shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per
Companies Act, 2013.
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7)
days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used.
NTPC Limited
·
·