NTPC Green Energy Limited  
(A Subsidiary of NTPC Ltd., a Government of India Enterprise)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Invitation for Expression of Interest (EOI) 
From 
Green Chemicals Developers around the Globe 
 
 
For 
 
Setting up of project(s) in India’s first Green Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka 
(near Visakhapatnam), Andhra Pradesh  

DOCUMENT STRUCTURE OF EOI  
 
 
 
This Expression of Interest (EOI) document is organized into the following sections: 
 
 Section I : EOI Overview and Key Information 
 Section II : Introduction and Background 
 Section III : Instructions for Applicants 
 Section IV : Consideration of Responses 
 Section V : Annexures and Supporting Documents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - I 
EOI Overview and Key Information 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)  
 
EOI No.: NGEL/BD/EOI-03/2025-26 Date: Sep 24, 2025  
 
NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL), is inviting expression of interest from Green 
chemicals Developers around the Globe for setting up of project(s) in India’s first 
Green Hydrogen hub at Pudimadaka (near Visakhapatnam), Andhra Pradesh 
1. Objective 
 
NGEL intends to seek interests from Global/Indian developers  for setting up Green 
Chemicals Project(s) in the NGEL Green Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka, AP. 
 
2. Eligibility Criteria 
Detailed eligibility criteria mentioned in Section-II below. 
3. Post-EOI Process 
 
Upon evaluation and shortlisting of EOI responses, NGEL may undertake further steps 
ultimately enter into a land sub-lease agreement, RE power sale agreement, water 
supply agreement AND/OR Green Hydrogen supply agreement AND/OR Biogenic CO2 
supply agreement AND/OR Green Ammonia AND/OR Joint Venture Agreement etc. 
with the selected Developer(s). 
 
4. EOI Document Access & Timeline 
 
 EOI Documents: available for free download at www.ntpctender.com or 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
 Key Dates: 
o Last date for submitting queries/clarifications: D a t e  o f  E O I  p u b l i s h (T)+15 
days 
o Last date for submission of EOI: T+30 days 
o Date of opening EOI responses: T+30 days 
o Validity of EOI Response: 1 year from the last date of submission 
 
5. Submission Guidelines 
Applicants are required to submit a soft copy of their complete EOI in the portal. 
Submissions must be completed on or before the last date of submission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Rights Reserved 
 
NGEL reserves the right to modify, accept or reject any or all EOIs, or to cancel/withdraw 
the entire process at any stage without assigning any reason. In such cases, applicants 
shall have no claim whatsoever arising from such actions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - II 
Introduction and Background 
1. Introduction 
 
NGEL is an umbrella company for the green business initiatives of NTPC and undertakes 
projects through organic and inorganic routes and aims to be the flag-bearer of NTPC’s green 
energy journey to achieve the ambitious target of 60 GW by FY 32. The installed RE capacity 
of 8 GW, an additional 24 GW is in pipeline. 
The company has strategically diversified its portfolio within the realm of Green Energies 
and participating in bidding process, tenders, and Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power 
Parks (UMREPP), to achieve growth over the decade and act as a premier “Green Energy” 
player in India as well as globally.  
NGEL is developing the largest Green Hydrogen Hub in Pudimadaka, near 
Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. It was declared as India’s first National Green 
Hydrogen Hub by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India on 8 th Jan’ 2025 while laying the 
foundation stone for the project at Visakhapatnam. 
The Hub is slated to produce 2.5 MMTPA Green Chemicals  (Ammonia, Methanol, e-
SAF, Green Urea etc.). The Hub would have Electrolyser of 7 GW capacity, 7.5 GW GIS 
substations, 7.5 GW transmission lines from CTU substation, Captive Port/Jetty, 
Desalination Plant, Chemical storage, logistics area, utilities area, common buildings etc. 
The green power for the energy intensive hub shall be arranged by NGEL from Andhra 
Pradesh.  
 
 
2. Criteria for Green Chemicals Developers 
 
To be considered for setting up project(s) in the Hub, the proposed projects must meet 
the below mentioned criteria: 
 RE power and water AND/OR Green Hydrogen AND/OR Biogenic CO2 AND/OR Green 
Ammonia to be sourced from NGEL only. 
 
3. Purpose of the Expression of Interest (EOI) 
 
The primary objectives of this EOI are to: 
 
 Support NGEL's vision to develop India’s largest Green Hydrogen Hub by 2032. 
 Develop capacities for export and also for early development of the complete ecosystem. 
 To contribute to the economy of the state and generate employment. 
 To contribute towards the National Green Hydrogen Mission of the country and make 
India an energy secure nation aiming to become a net exporter of energy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - III 
Instructions for Applicants 
Applicants are advised to carefully read and adhere to the following instructions while 
preparing and submitting their Expression of Interest (EOI): 
 
 
1. General Guidelines 
a. Language: All submissions, correspondence, and queries related to this EOI must be in 
English only. 
 
b. Submission Format: Applicants must complete the EOI Application Form and all 
annexures provided in Section V . Submissions are required in soft copy formats. 
c. Reference Material: Applicants are strongly advised to thoroughly review Section I 
(EOI Overview and Key Information) and Section II (Introduction and Background) 
before completing the forms in Section V. 
d. Contact Details: Each application must include the names and contact details 
(including full postal address, phone number, and email ID) of two authorized 
representatives. 
 
e. Additional Information: NGEL reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to request 
additional information or clarification from any applicant after the submission deadline, 
especially to address discrepancies or inconsistencies. 
 
2. Enquiries and Clarifications 
All queries or requests for clarification regarding this EOI must be submitted via email 
to the following addresses: 
To:  
 To: rkmehroliya@ntpc.co.in 
 
 cc: prahul@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
3. Corrigendum 
NGEL reserves the right to modify or amend the EOI document at any time before the 
submission deadline, either at its own discretion or in response to applicant queries. All 
amendments or corrigenda will be published on the designated websites and will be binding 
on all applicants. Applicants must account for such updates when submitting their 
responses. NGEL may also extend the submission deadline at its discretion, if necessary. 
 
4. Preparation of EOI Response 
The EOI response must include the following, as per formats provided in Section V: 
 
 Annexure 1: Covering Letter cum Undertaking 
 Annexure 2 & 3: Applicant Information 
 Authorization Document: 
o Power of Attorney , duly notarized, or 
o Letter of Authorization supported by Power of Attorney /Board Resolution , 
authorizing the signatory to submit the EOI 
 
 
5. Submission of EOI Response 
 Applicants must submit a complete soft copy of the EOI in the portal.  
 All pages of the submission must be signed and stamped by the authorized signatory. 
 Responses must be submitted within the specified deadline , as outlined in Section I. 
 
 
6. Opening of EOI Responses 
EOI submissions will be opened at 1500 Hrs on the scheduled date mentioned in Section 
I. Applicants will be informed of the opening through the e-procurement portal. 
 
If the scheduled date falls on a non-working day or public holiday, the EOI responses 
will be opened on the next working day at the same time. 
 
 
7. Costs and Expenses 
All costs associated with the preparation and submission of the EOI, including participation 
in discussions and execution of related documents, will be borne solely by the applicant . 
NGEL shall not be liable for any costs incurred, irrespective of the outcome of the 
process. 
 
 
8. Confidentiality 
Applicants are required to treat all information contained in or related to this EOI as 
confidential, and must not disclose such information except under the following conditions: 
 To professional advisors 
 To officers, employees, agents, representatives, or financiers who require access for 
performing relevant functions 
 As required by applicable laws or regulations 
 
NGEL reserves the right to disclose the terms and contents of this EOI or related 
documents, as required by law. 
 
 
9. Disclaimer 
 
This EOI has been issued by NGEL to seek interests from Global/Indian developers for 
setting up Green Hydrogen and/or Green Chemicals Project(s) in the NGEL Green 
Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka, AP. 
By submitting an EOI, applicants acknowledge and agree to the terms and disclaimers 
outlined in this document. No oral or written representation, apart from what is 
explicitly stated in this EOI, shall be binding on NGEL or construed as modifying the 
terms herein. 
 
 
 
 
Section-IV 
Consideration of Responses 
1. Responsiveness Check 
All submitted responses will be reviewed to confirm the applicant’s intent and eligibility for 
developing Green Hydrogen/Green Chemicals project(s) in the NGEL Green Hydrogen Hub. 
Each response must comply with the specified submission requirements to be considered 
responsive. 
 
A response shall be considered non-responsive under the following conditions: 
 
a. Submission is incomplete, lacking any of the required formats such as the covering 
letter, Power of Attorney/Letter of Authorization, or relevant undertakings as outlined 
in Annexures of Section V. 
b. Response is not duly signed and stamped by the authorized signatory as required in this 
EOI. 
c. Presence of material inconsistencies or discrepancies in the submitted 
information/documents. 
d. An applicant submits multiple responses either directly or through an affiliate or 
subsidiary entity. 
e. The validity period of the response is less than that specified in Clause 4 of Section I 
of this EOI. 
 
f. The response is conditional in nature, containing deviations or qualifications. 
 
g. Submission is received after the deadline specified for EOI responses. 
 
h. Failure or delay in submitting additional information or clarifications requested by 
NGEL, where applicable. 
Only applications that satisfy all of the above criteria will be considered responsive and 
taken forward for further evaluation. NGEL reserves the sole discretion to deem a 
response non-responsive in case of any non-compliance, and such responses will be 
excluded from further consideration. 
 
 
2. Documents Required to Establish Credentials 
Applicants must submit the following documents as part of their EOI response to 
establish their credentials and eligibility:
 
a) Certificate of Incorporation/Company Registration Details 
 
b) Audited Financial Statements for the last three financial years (if available) 
 
c) Excerpt from the Offtake agreement (if available) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-V 
 
Annexures and Supporting Documents 
 
 
Annexure-1 
 
Format For Covering Letter Cum Undertaking 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
Date :   
Place :   
 
To, 
……………………………. 
 
Sub.: (Invitation For Expression Of Interest-EOI) 
 
Ref.:  EOI No.  , dated  (the “EOI”) 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined and 
understood in detail the (Invitation for Expression of Interest). 
We confirm that neither we nor any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate Parent 
Company has submitted a response other than this response directly or indirectly in 
response to the aforesaid EOI. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NGEL, as amended. In 
token of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed, stamped by us and 
enclosed to the response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EOI shall be 
binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per the provisions and formats of the 
EOI, without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or 
notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made 
by NGEL in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EOI shall be binding 
on us. We hereby expressly waive any and all claims in respect of EOI process. We 
confirm that there are no litigations or disputes against us, which materially affect 
our ability to participate or function under the obligations with regard to EOI. 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name : 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact t e l e p h o n e  numbers: 
Email id: 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in 
electronic  format  in the portal as per the EOI for consideration. 
 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of submission 
as stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NGEL, if any. 
 
7. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the 
requirements stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and 
understanding. We would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our 
response. 
 
8. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for acceptance 
for a period of three hundred and sixty- f i v e  (365) days from the response Deadline. 
 
9. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed “ non- 
Responsive” as stipulated in Section-IV of this EOI. 
 
10. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
We remain, 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of 
Attorney/letter of authorization is issued) 
Annexure - 2 
 
Information to be submitted by Applicant. 
 
 
1. Name of the Company: 
 
2. Country: 
3. Legal status of the Company (Pvt/Govt/listed/unlisted etc.): 
4. Brief description of the Company including details of its business 
groups/subsidiaries/ affiliates: 
5. Date of Incorporation: 
6. Full address including Telephone nos./Email id.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Address for communication: 
c. Contact Details: 
d. Office Address in India, applicable for international participants: 
 
 
 
 
 
(Sign & Company Seal) 
Authorized signatory 
Annexure-3 
Sl. Parameters of the proposed Green Chemical 
Project(s) 
Preference Unit Value/ 
Quantity 
1 Product Name  
(Ammonia, Methanol, SAF, Urea, LOHC etc.) 
           -  
2 Capacity of Final Product  TPD  
3 Target Date of Commercial Operation  MM/YYYY  
4 Project Capex (excl RE)  Mn (USD)  
5 RE power required from NGEL  MW, 
MWh/day 
 
6 Raw/treated water requirement from NGEL  m3/day   
7 DM water requirement from NGEL  m3/day   
8 Green Hydrogen required from NGEL, if any Yes/No TPD  
9 CO2 required from NGEL/NTPC, if any Yes/No TPD  
10 Green Ammonia required from NGEL, if any Yes/No TPD  
11 Port facilities/tie-up to be arranged by NGEL  Yes/No   
12 Land area required   Acre  
13 Name of the Entity having Offtake agreement 
with (if available) 
-  -    
14 Preferred equity participation by NGEL, if any  %  