                              NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
Design, Engineering, Supply of material, Erection & commissioning 
of Interconnecting conveyor 13B from TP-2 to TP-2A at NTPC Kanti 
 
       Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900310879                               
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” 
from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned 
hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK  
The scope of work comprises of  
 
Design, Engineering, Supply of material, Erection & commissioning 
of Interconnecting conveyor 13B from TP-2 to TP-2A at NTPC Kanti 
 
The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, erection, testing and 
inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, 
transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection 
including associated civil and structural works if any. 
NTPC intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per etender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per etender portal 
Pre-bid Conference As per e-tender portal. 
Pre bid conference shall be done through 
MS team meeting at following link. 
Pre bid Meeting for Tender of Design, Engineering ,Supply of material, Erection & 
commissioning of Interconnecting conveyor 13B from TP-2 to TP-2A at NTPC Kanti | 
Meeting-Join | Microsoft Teams 
 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per etender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per etender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per etender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 2,00,000/-  
Tender Fee Rs. 2,655/- 
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above.” 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
documents. Option for Online payment of tender fee is also made available at GepNIC/e 
tender portal. Bidders are requested to please avail the facility. 
For details, please refer Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD through BG/ST or EMD Exemption Allowed” Tab is enabled 
only for the purpose of allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of the bank 
Guarantee. Bidders are advised NOT to upload MSE/other document for availing 
exemption. Payment of EMD and Tender fee is not exempted in this tender. Bids 
without adequate Bid Security and Tender fee, as per tender provisions, shall be 
outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of tender fee 
is to be done only through online facility on GePNIC portal. Bid Security/EMD may be paid 
only through online payment of bid security amount applicable for this tender OR through 
Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the tender provisions. 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e-BG 
through NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e-BG, due to some practical difficulties or 
constraints, physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG as bid security, if opted for, 
should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for 
communication (Clause-13 hereunder) before the bid submission deadline in physical 
form and scanned copy of BG must be uploaded in the FEE folder in the tendering portal. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank 
guarantee and also ensure that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the 
address mentioned above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 
15, failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: As applicable 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid 
an Earnest Money Deposit of amount ₹ 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh only) 
 
c) Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/Performance Security is to be submitted as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee 
towards Bid Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding 
Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG should only be as per Form-1 specified 
vide Sec VII Book 3 of 3 and EMD BG submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard 
Format shall be rejected for which NTPC shall not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed envelope shall 
be rejected by the Employer as being non-responsive. 
 
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the 
stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given below.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY AND INTEGRITY 
PACT(If applicable) SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted as E-BG/ electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, 
Bidder to submit the copy of E-BG/proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed 
envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to 
provide GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS.  
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: 
 
 
7.1 Technical Criteria: 
7.1.1 The bidder should have designed, supplied, erected/got erected and 
commissioned at least one ‘Material handling system / Coal Handling System’ 
(essentially comprising a belt conveyor system) including all associated structural 
steel works and electrical works with conveying capacity of 1,000 metric tonnes per 
hour or above for coal or other minerals, which should have been in successful 
operation for at least one continuous year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid 
opening. 
 
7.1.2 The bidder should have executed work(s) of ‘Supply’ and/or ‘Erection/got 
erection/ commissioned’ for any part(s) of ‘Material Handling System / Coal handling 
System’, within preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of Techno-Commercial 
bid opening, in any of the following manner: 
 
(a) One (1) order having executed value not less than Rs.  132 Lakh 
OR 
(b) Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs.  83 Lakh each  
OR 
(c) Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs.  66 Lakh each 
 
Notes for Technical Criteria: 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
2. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified 
by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in 
support of qualifying requirements.  
3. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date 
of Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable.  
4. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only 
shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should 
provide the break – up of basic value and taxes. 
 
 
7.2    Financial criteria: 
 
7.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, should not be less than Rs.  165 
Lakh (Rupees One Crore Sixty-five lakh only)  during the preceding three (3) 
completed financial years prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
7.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. 7.2.1 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at Cl. 7.2.1 above, provided that the net worth of such 
Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such 
an event, the bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract 
by the bidder in case of award. 
7.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
 
a. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
along with copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its 
Holding Company. 
b. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the 
company. 
7.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the 
date of Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results 
certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In 
case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered 
for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating 
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 7.2: 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the 
extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
 
8 ‘Class-I local suppliers’’ - are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier (Minimum 
Local Content equal to or more than 50%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid 
Form.  By accepting the MLC provision of GTE it will be considered that: 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in 
Annexure-II to BDS.  
 
Also, supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for 
violation of ‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII 
Order) dated 15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by 
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration 
and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
9 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines 
of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall 
have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
11 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to 
be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the 
presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
12 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible.  
 
13 Address for communication: 
 
DGM/AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chhattisgarh - 492018  
Email: cpsingh@ntpc.co.in / gauravsaraswat@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515455 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
14 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details 
Date : 03-Oct-2025 04:28 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference 
Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900310879
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_100734_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical 
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical 
Evaluation Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For 
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency 
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
Payment Instruments
Online 
Bankers
S.NoBank Name
1S B I  B a n k
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover 
No Cover Document Type Description
1F e e . p d f Tender Fee 
Details
.pdf EMD Details
2P r e Q u a l / T e c h n i c a l . p d f
Technical 
details and 
attachments
.pdf Attachment-
3A
.pdf Technical QR 
Documents
.pdf
Financial QR 
Documents 
and balance 
Sheets
.pdf TPIA/ISA 
Undertaking
.pdf Power of 
Attorney
3F i n a n c e . x l s Price Bid / 
BOQ
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 2,655]
Tender Fee in ₹ 2,655
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee 
Exemption 
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption 
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct 
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
Click to view modification history
Page 1 of 3NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
03-10-2025https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedVie...
Work /Item(s)
Title Design, Engineering ,Supply of material, Erection and commissioning
Work Description Design, Engineering ,Supply of material, Erection and commissioning ofInterconnecting conveyor 13B 
from TP-2 to TP-2A at NTPC Kanti
Pre Qualification 
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External 
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in 
Public Domain
Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous 
Works 
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 270 
Location Western Region Head 
QuartersII Plot No. -87, 
Secto
Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting 
Address
At given address Pre Bid Meeting Date 14-Oct-2025 
11:00 AM 
Bid Opening Place Western 
Region Head 
QuartersII
Should Allow NDA 
Tender
No Allow Preferential 
Bidder
No
Critical Dates
Publish Date 03-Oct-2025 04:30 PM Bid Opening Date 24-Oct-2025 03:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start 
Date
03-Oct-2025 04:30 PM Document Download / Sale End 
Date
22-Oct-2025 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 03-Oct-2025 04:30 PM Clarification End Date 15-Oct-2025 05:00 PM 
Bid Submission Start Date 03-Oct-2025 04:30 PM Bid Submission End Date 22-Oct-2025 03:00 PM
Tender Documents
NIT 
Document S.No Document Name Description Document 
Size (in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT /IFB 577.70 
Work Item 
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document 
Size (in KB)
1 Tender Documents Bidding_Doc.rar Bid Doc 15708.02
2 BOQ BOQ_103946.xls BOQ/Price Bid 315.00
3 Tender Documents QPandSTC.rar QP and STC 26812.56
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT-SINGLE STAGE-MLC)
S.No Particulars Expected Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included 
in the PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM 
LOCAL CONTENT requirements of the Tender. - [ MLC Declaration for 
Services] 
Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rul es - [ SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE] Y e s Y e s
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Preve ntion Policy of NTPC - [ FRAUD PREVENTION] Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC - 
[ BANNING POLICY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
5.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements - [ QR 
COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents - [ NO 
DEVIATION CERTIFICATION] Yes Yes
Page 2 of 3NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
03-10-2025https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedVie...
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender ge ts extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in H arsh Mamodia Harsh Mamodia
2. ajaykumarshivhare@nt pc.co.in AJAY SHIVHARE AJAY KUMAR SHIVHARE
3. anandshanker@ntpc.co.in A NAND SHANKER ANAND SHANKER
4. cpsingh@ntpc.co.in Chandra Prakash Singh CHANDRA PRAKASH SINGH
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering 
Process allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid 
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in 
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening 
BoQ Comparative 
Chart model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal 
places
2
BoQ Comparative 
Chart Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender c omplying with Order Reason for n on compliance of Order 
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree Applicable
2 MSEs Order 2012 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Tender Inviting Authority
Name DGMCnM
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal RAIPUR 492018
Tender Creator Details
Created By Chandra Prakash Singh
Designation DGM
Created Date 03-Oct-2025 02:56 PM
Page 3 of 3NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
03-10-2025https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedVie...