NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
   SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III (2X800MW) 
   LOCATED AT 
PO – Shakti Nagar, Distt. Sonbhadra, Uttar Pradesh-231222 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
 FOR 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works 
including OHE and S&T  
for  
Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW)
Bidding Document No.: CS-1150-350A-9 
CONTENTS 
Sl. No. Description Page No. 
1.0 Definition of Terms 5 
2.0 Bid Validity and Bid Security 7 
2.1 Bid Documents 8 
2.1.3 Documents comprising the bids 8 
2.2 Understanding and clarifications on bid documents 13 
2.3 Discrepancies and adjustment of errors 14 
2.4 Signature of bids/offers 14 
3.0 Scope of work 14 
4.0 Cost Estimate 16 
5.0 Consideration of Contract 16 
6.0 Specific Exclusions from Direct Cost 18 
7.0 Cost Control 19 
8.0 Terms of Payment 20 
8.1 Advances 20 
8.2 Terms of Payment for Direct Cost & PMC Fees 21 
9.0 Terms of payment for Consultancy fee for Design 22 
10.0 Record of Accounts 24 
11.0 Completion Schedule 24 
12.0 PMC/PEA’s personnel 24 
13.0 Completion Certificate 25 
14.0 Liquidated Damages for Delays 27 
15.0 Responsibility of PMC/PEA 27 
16.0 Assistance to be provided by NTPC 29 
17.0 Taxes, Duties and Insurance 30 
18.0 Suspension of Works 31 
19.0 Settlement of Dispute 31 
20.0 NOT USED 40 
21.0 Termination 43 
22.0 Signing of Agreement 45 
23.0 Governing Laws 45 
24.0 Suspension of the obligation 45 
25.0 Force Majeure 45 
26.0 Limitation of liabilities 45 
27.0 Enforcement of Terms 46 
28.0 Notice of Default 46 
29.0 Patent 46 
30.0 Instruction Regarding Expenditure 46 
31.0 Indemnity 47 
32.0 Progress Report 47 
33.0 Units & Standards/Codes/Regulations 47 
34.0 Association of NTPC`s Engineers 47 
35.0 No Waiver 48 
36.0 NTPC Discretion 48 
37.0 Safety Measures 48 
38.0 Fraud Prevention Policy 48 
39.0 Authorization for Electronic Fund Transfer 49 
40.0 Integrity Pact 49 
41.0 Independent External Monitors 49 
42.0 Travel Expenses 50 
43.0 Address for Communication 50 
44.0 Policy for Withholding and Banning of Business Dealings 51 
45.0 “Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a country 
which shares a land border with India” 
52 
46.0 Certification of General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of 
the Tender at e -Tender Portal for compliance 
Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a country 
which shares a land border with India 
54 
47.0 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy 54 
48.0 CONFLICT OF INTEREST 55 
49.0 EVALUATION OF BIDS 56 
50.0 Declaration regarding insolvency, bankruptcy and 
Liquidation: 
57 
51.0 Advance Payment Securities 58 
Attachment-1 Bid Security 60 
Attachment-2 Power of Attorney 61 
Attachment-3 Electronic Fund Transfer 62 
Attachment-4 Format of Integrity Pact 64 
Attachment-5 Site Visit Certificate 69 
Attachment-6 Format for declaration by the Domestic Bidder 70 
Schedule-1 DELETED 72 
Schedule-2 Work-Schedule 73 
Annexure-A Proforma for Bank Guarantee for Advance Payment 
Annexure-A1 List of Banks for CPG and Advance Payment Security 
Annexure-A2 Bank Guarantee Verification Check List 
Annexure-A3 Determination of PMC/PEA fee for Balance Work beyond 
Contractual Completion Schedule 
Annexure-A4 Cost Estimation of Direct Cost 
Annexure-A5 Detailed Procedure for deriving PMC fee on account of 
Scope Change/qty variation for bridges and Sheds & 
Buildings 
Annexure-A6 The format for preparation of variation statement 
Annexure-B Proforma for Bank Guarantee for Bid Security 
Annexure-B1 Form of Insurance Surety Bond towards Bid Security 
Annexure-C Format of Undertaking 
Annexure-D Safety Rules 
Annexure-E Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a country 
which shares a land border with India 
Annexure-F The Panel of Conciliation Committees of Independent 
Experts (CCIE) 
Form 1 BG forwarding letter from Bank to Unified Treasury in 
Bank’s letterhead 
Form 2 BG charges undertaking 
Form 3 DECLARATION OF ABSENCE OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
Form 4 UNDERTAKING REGARDING ABSENCE OF CONFLICT OF 
INTEREST WITH EMPLOYER/CONTRACTOR 
Form 5 Form of contract Agreement 
Form 6 FORM OF EXTENSION OF BANK GUARANTEE/ INSURANCE 
SURETY BOND 
APPENDIX-A FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT 

INTRODUCTION 
Name of the Project: SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, STAGE-III 
(2X800MW)    located at PO – Shakti Nagar, Distt. Sonbhadra, 
Uttar Pradesh-231222 
Name of the Package: DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for SINGRAULI STPP-III (2x800 MW) 
Bids are invited for the aforesaid Package for SINGRAULI, STPP-III (2x800 MW) under 
Single Stage Two Envelope bidding process as mentioned below: 
- Envelope-I   containing "Techno -Commercial Bid”. 
- Envelope-II    containing "Price Bid"
The bidder has to submit Techno -Commercial Bid (Envelope -I) and Price Bid 
(Envelope-II) through website portal https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ (electronic mode) 
only as per timelines given below.  
Issuance of Bidding Document 04.10.2025
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) receipt date 
& time 
27.10.2025 up to 18:30 Hrs. (IST)
Date & Time for opening of Envelope -I (Techno – 
Commercial) bid. 
28.10.2025 at 10:30 Hrs. (IST)
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II (Price) bid Shall be intimated later 
To submit their bid through electronic mode, bidder has to use their digital signature 
certificate keys. The bidders are requested to download the entire bidding documents 
from the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/, within the date and time as specified 
on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, after online registration in the above 
website. 
"Techno-Commercial Bid" shall be opened as per the date and time mentioned in the  E-
Tender Portal of NTPC (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in). The "Price Bid" shall be opened at 
a later date and time intimated in writing/email separately by the Owner. 
1.0 DEFINITION OF TERMS 
1.1 Unless defined otherwise, the following terms wherever used in this document shall 
have the following meanings. 
1.2 ‘Owner’ or ‘Client’ or ‘NTPC’  or ‘Employer’ shall mean NTPC Limited, New Delhi, 
India (A Government of India Enterprise) incorporated under Companies Act 1956, 
with its registered office at Core-7, Scope Complex, 7 Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi -110 003 and shall include their legal repr esentatives, successors and 
permitted assigns. 
1.3 ‘Project Management Consultant (PMC) / Project Executing Agency (PEA)  shall 
mean (Name of the Company) as appointed by the owner for the work stipulated at 
clause 3.0 of Terms and Conditions of Contract for DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and 
Railway Siding Works including OHE and S&T for SINGRAULI STPP -III (2x800 
MW) and shall include their legal representatives, successors and permitted assigns. 
1.4 ‘Contract’ shall mean the Letter of Award/Contract Agreement entered into between 
the Owner and PMC/PEA, together with the contract documents referred to therein, 
they shall constitute the contract and the term ‘Contract’ shall in all such documents 
be construed accordingly. 
1.5 ‘Contractor’ means any person to whom execution of any part of the work including 
preparation of any design or supply of any plant & equipment is awarded by 
PMC/PEA on behalf of Owner and includes its legal successor or permitted assigns. 
1.6 ‘Engineer’ or ‘Engineer-in-Charge’ or ‘EIC’ shall mean the officer appointed in writing 
by the Owner to act as ‘Coordinator’ from time to time on behalf of Owner in all 
matters pertaining to this contract. ‘Engineer -in-Charge- shall be authorized by the 
Owner for supervision, inspection, scrutiny and approval of some or all of the services 
rendered by the PMC/PEA under the contract. 
1.7 ‘Specification’ or ‘Bidding Document or ‘Bid Document’ shall mean the Terms and 
Conditions of Contract forming a part of the contract and such other schedules, 
documents, and drawings. 
1.8 ‘Notice of Award of Contract’ / ‘Letter of Award’ shall mean the official intimation from 
the Owner notifying PMC/PEA that its proposal has been accepted, and that 
PMC/PEA is required to sign the Contract Agreement. 
1.9 ‘Date of Commencement’ shall mean the date on which both the parties have signed 
the Contract Agreement, or any other date mentioned in the Contract/Letter of Award, 
as the effective date of Commencement, whichever is earlier. Further, Date of 
Commencement for start of construction of Railway Siding shall be the date on which 
NTPC advises PMC/PEA to proceed with the work or the date mentioned in LOA 
whichever occurs later. 
1.10 ‘Week’ shall mean a continuous period of seven (7) days. 
1.11 ‘Indian Rupees’ shall mean the currency of the Government of India. 
1.12 The ‘Government’ shall mean the ‘Government of India’ or Government of State of 
Uttar Pradesh  or an authorized representative/agency/department of the 
‘Government of India’ or an authorized representative/agency/department of the 
‘Government of State of Uttar Pradesh'. 
1.13 The Words imparting singular shall also include the plural and vice -versa where the 
context so requires. 
1.14 The ‘Project’ or ‘Site’ or ‘Singrauli Super Thermal Power Project’ or ‘Singrauli Super 
Thermal Power Project Stage-III (2 x 800 MW)’ shall mean and include the land and 
other places on or over or into or through which the Railway Siding System and its 
associated sub-systems such as signaling and telecommunication system, etc., are 
to be constructed by PMC/PEA as specified in scope of wo rk. It shall also include 
any adjacent land, Path Street, river or a reservoir which may be allocated or used 
by the Owner or PMC/PEA in performance of the Contract.  
1.15 ‘Starting Date’ shall mean the date from which the periods specified for various 
activities are measured and as set forth in the completion schedules. The starting 
date for each schedule, unless otherwise agreed, shall be as indicated in the 
respective schedule. 
1.16 Contract Price means total fees payable to PMC/PEA as stipulated in clause 5.2 & 
5.3 
1.17 ‘Month’ shall mean calendar month. ‘Day or Days’ unless herein otherwise expressly 
defined shall mean calendar day or day of 24 hours each. 
1.18 The ‘works’ shall mean the works to be executed in accordance with the Contract or 
part(s) thereof as the case may be and shall include all extra or additional, altered or 
substituted works or temporary and urgent works as required for performance  of the 
contract. 
1.19 The title or heading shall not alter or affect the intent or scope of the clauses or 
articles of the Documents.  
1.20 The Date of Completion of Contract/Facilities 
Unless otherwise terminated under the provisions of any other relevant clause of the 
document, the Contract/Facilities shall be deemed to have been completed after 
issuance of the certification from Engineer -in-charge that there is no demand 
outstanding against PMC and all works under the contract have been satisfactorily 
executed by PMC/PEA. The above date shall be the date on which the section or a 
part of the same is certified as fit for the commencement of rail traffic, by the 
Railways. 
1.21 Words imparting ‘Person’ shall include firms, companies, corporations and 
association or bodies of individuals, whether incorporated or not.  
1.22 The Defect Liability Period shall be twelve (12) months from the date of issuance of 
certificate for Completion of Facilities from NTPC for entire Railway siding and MGR. 
1.23 “Final Report”, “Final Document” or “Detailed Project Report” (DPR) shall mean the 
final report submitted by PMC/PEA in respect of the consultancy assignment as per 
Indian Railways/RDSO guidelines. 
1.24 Estimated Direct Cost means total cost as per break up mentioned at Clause 4.0 
below.  
2.0 BID VALIDITY AND BID SECURITY 
The proposal shall be on firm price basis and valid for acceptance for at least 1 20 
days from the date of submission of the offer. Bidder is required to submit bid security 
for an amount of INR 20,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Twenty Lakhs only) which shall be 
initially valid for a period of one hundred sixty five ( 165) days from the date of Bid 
Opening of Envelope-I (Techno Commercial) Bid as per the format (Annexure-B/B1) 
and from any of the banks mentioned in the Annexure -A1 enclosed in the bid 
document. The bid security shall, at the Bidder's option, be in the form of a bank 
guarantee or insurance surety bond or EFT. 
 
In exceptional circumstances, Employer may solicit the Bidder's consent to an 
extension of the bid validity period. The request and responses thereto shall be made 
in writing by post, or e -mail. If a Bidder accepts to extend the period of bid validity, 
the validity of bid security shall also be suitably extended. A Bidder may refuse the 
request without forfeiting its bid security. A Bidder granting the request will not be 
required nor permitted to modify its bid. 
 
2.1 BID DOCUMENTS 
 
2.1.1 This document is meant for exclusive purpose of submitting the offer by the bidder 
against the specification and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise used 
for purposes other than for which it is specifically issued. 
 
2.1.2 Not used. 
 
2.1.3 DOCUMENTS COMPRISING THE BIDS  
 
2.1.3.1 The Techno-Commercial (Envelope-I) Bid shall comprise of the following: 
 
2.1.3.1.1  The Documents to be submitted in physical form in separate sealed envelope (s) 
duly marked at the address giving at clause 43.0, before the last date of submission 
of Bid. In addition, the scanned copy of these physical forms are to be uploaded by 
Bidder in Fee Cover/ Envelope on the e -tender portal at website portal 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
 
(a) Attachment 1: Bid Security   
 
 
 2.1  The Bidder shall furnish, as part of its Bid, a Bid Security in a separate sealed 
envelope in the amount and currency as stipulated above. In case bid security 
amount is deposited as EFT, Proof of e -payment of Bid Security, shall be 
submitted in the e-tendering portal or in a separate sealed envelope. 
 
EFT Account Details for Bid Security 
Name NTPC Limited 
Bank Name State Bank of India 
Bank Address CAG II Branch, 5th Floor 
Redfort Capital, Parsvnath  
Towers, Bhai Veer Singh Marg, 
Gole Market, New Delhi- 11000 
Current Account Number NTPCPY050003551001 
IFSC SBIN0017313 
 
 
 2.2  The Bid Security shall, at the Bidder's option, be in the form of e-BG, Electronic 
Fund Transfer (EFT)/ irrevocable Letter of Credit or a bank guarantee from 
any of the banks specified in the Bid Data Sheets or an Insurance Surety Bond 
from an Insurer as per guidelines issued by Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India (IRDAI). 
 
  Upon successful e-payment of the Bid Security on the NTPC e -tender portal, 
an e -receipt shall be generated by the system, a copy of which is to be 
submitted by the bidder as a part of its bid, in the e -tendering portal or in a 
separate sealed envelope, as a proof of e-payment of Bid Security. 
 
   
  The format of the Bank Guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond shall be in 
accordance with the form of bank guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond towards 
bid security included in the Bidding Documents. The Bank Guarantee/ 
Insurance Surety Bond shall be issued on Non-Judicial stamp paper/e-stamp 
paper of appropriate value as per applicable Stamp Act(s). 
 
  Bid Security shall remain valid for a period of forty -five (45) days beyond the 
original Bid validity period and beyond any extension of bid validity 
subsequently requested under relevant clause. 
   
 2.3  Wherever Bids under Joint Venture route are permitted as per the Qualifying 
Requirements in the Bidding Documents, the Bid Security by the Joint Venture 
must be on behalf of all the partners of the Joint Venture. 
 
 2.4  Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed 
envelope shall be rejected by the employer as being non-responsive. In case, 
the bid security is submitted as e -BG/EFT, bidder to submit the copy of e -
BG/proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed envelope or in 
the e -tendering portal. Further Stage -II (Price Bid) (in case of Two Stage 
bidding) not accompanied by requisite bid security extension (in case Bid 
Security is submitted in the form of BG/ Insurance Surety Bond) in a separate 
sealed envelope shall be rejected by the Employer as being non-responsive. 
 
 2.5  BG against Bid Security issued by a Bank outside India needs to bear stamp 
duty of appropriate value as applicable. The BG may be got adjudicated by 
the employer from Collector of Stamps, within 3 months of arrival of BG in 
India. Expenses incurred in this regard shall be borne by NTPC.  
 
  Insurance Surety Bond against Bid Security issued by an Indian Insurance 
company outside India needs to bear stamp duty of appropriate value as 
applicable. The Insurance Surety Bond may be got adjudicated by the 
employer from Collector of Stamps, within 3 months of arrival of Insurance 
Surety Bond in India. Expenses i ncurred in this regard shall be borne by 
NTPC. 
 
 2.6  Subject to clause 2.8 below, the Bid Security of the Bidder whose Techno -
Commercial Bid has not been found acceptable, shall be returned along with 
letter communicating rejection of Techno-Commercial Bid. The Bid Security of 
the bidders who are unsuccessful after opening of Price Bids shall be returned 
expeditiously after placement of award on successful bidder.  
 
 2.7  The Bid Security of the successful Bidder to whom the contract is awarded will 
be returned when the said Bidder has accepted the Letter of Award.  
 
 2.8  The Bid Security may be forfeited 
 
 a)  If the Bidder withdraws or varies its Bid during the period of Bid validity; 
 
 b)  If the Bidder does not accept the correction of its Bid Price pursuant to ITB 
Sub- Clause for Arithmetical Correction. 
 
 c)  If the Bidder refuses to withdraw, without any cost to the Employer, any 
deviation, variation, additional condition or any other mention anywhere in the 
bid (Price bid in case of Two Stage Bid), contrary to the provisions of bidding 
documents; 
 
 d)  In the case of a successful Bidder, if the Bidder fails within the specified time 
limit to furnish the required Contract Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit 
in accordance with relevant clause. 
 
 e)  If the bidder/his representatives commits any fraud while competing for this 
contract pursuant to Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
 (f)  In case the Bidder/Contractor is disqualified from bidding process in terms of 
Section 3 and 4 of Integrity Pact. 
 
(g)  Any suppression of material fact or false declaration regarding Insolvency, 
bankruptcy and Liquidation proceeding against Bidder, Associate, 
Collaborator or Technology Provider.” 
 
 
 2.9 CONFIRMATION OF PHYSICAL BGS THROUGH STRUCTURED 
FINANCIAL MESSAGING SYSTEM (SFMS)/ SWIFT (Not applicable for e -
BGs through NESL platform) 
 
  While issuing the physical BGs, the Bidder’s Bank shall also send electronic 
message through secure SFMS (in case of BGs issued from within India) or 
SWIFT (in case of BGs issued from outside India) to Employer’s Beneficiary 
Bank whose details are provided herein below: 
 
 (i) Bank Name:    ICICI Bank Limited           
 (ii) Branch:  CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
 (iii) Bank Address:  9A, PHELPS BUILDING, INNER CIRCLE, NEW DELHI-              
110001    
 (iv) IFSC Code:  ICIC0000007 
 
  BG issuing/amending bank must send the BG advice in the form of message 
format via SFMS (Structured Financial Messaging System) as provided by 
RBI. The format of the message for confirmation of the BG shall be as below: 
 
  BG advising message: IFN 760COV/ IFN 767COV via SFMS 
  
  Field Number: Particulars (to be mentioned in Row 1) 
 
  7037: NTPCBG (unique identifier) 
 
 
 2.10 In case of Bidders opting for physical Bank Guarantee as Bid Security but 
unable to submit the Original Bank Guarantee at the tender opening location, 
before the deadline for submission of bids, following shall also be considered 
acceptable, subject to para 2.11 below: 
 
 (i)   The issuing bank shall intimate through their own official e -mail id to 
concerned C&M department with a copy to Bidder regarding issuance / 
extension of Bank Guarantee (BG) along with following documents, before the 
deadline of submission of bids: - 
  
 a) The scanned copy of the BG. 
 b) SFMS / SWIFT message acknowledgement copy sent to Employer /  
Employer’s banker stating the date of sending. 
 c) An undertaking from the issuing Bank strictly as per format enclosed at 
Annexure-C. 
 
 SFMS / SWIFT message must be sent to the Employer/Employer’s bank, details 
of which are mentioned in Bidding documents. 
 
 (ii)    Bidders shall also be required to upload the scanned copy of the BG on e -
Tender Portal in Fee Cover. 
 
 2.11 The bidder shall be required to submit all the documents in the manner as 
specified at para 2.10 above, to reach Employer before the deadline for 
submission of bids, failing which its bid shall be rejected as being non - 
responsive. 
 
  In such a case, Bidder shall also be required to submit the Original BG in 
physical form to reach Employer at the address mentioned in Bidding 
Documents, not later than 10 days from the date of submission of Techno -
Commercial bids or before the Price Bid o pening, whichever is earlier, failing 
which its bid shall be rejected and not considered for further evaluation. 
 
 (b) Attachment 2:  Power of Attorney 
 
 A power of attorney, duly notarized by a Notary Public, indicating that the 
person signing the bid has the authority to sign the bid and that the bid is 
binding upon the Bidder during the full period of its validity. 
 
 (The Authority of the person issuing the Power of Attorney shall also be 
submitted). 
 
 Further, Bidder to note that bid can be submitted/digitally signed by only one 
person. The Power of Attorney must be in the name of person digitally signing 
the bids. 
 
 (c) Attachment-4: Integrity Pact 
 
  The Integrity Pact shall be furnished duly signed in accordance with the 
provision of Integrity Pact specified in Clause 40. 
   
2.1.3.1.2 The scanned copy of following attachments is to be uploaded by Bidder in 
Technical Cover/Envelope on the e-tender portal https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/.: 
 
 (a) Schedule-2: (Work Schedule) 
Time is the essence of the Contract. Bidder is requested to furnish the Work 
Schedule for execution of the Contract.  
 
 (b) Attachment 3: EFT Form (Electronic Fund Transfer Form) 
 
EFT form duly filled in as per Employer's format. 
 
 (c) Attachment-5: Site visit Certificate 
 
  The Bidder is mandatorily required to visit and examine the site where the 
work to be executed and obtain for itself on its own responsibility , all 
information that may be necessary for preparing the bid and entering into a 
contract for the subject package. The costs of visiting the site shall be borne 
by the bidder fully. 
 
  The Bidder shall submit the Site Visit Certificate as per enclosed format at 
Attachment-5, duly signed by bidder and NTPC site representative along with 
their Envelope-I (Techno-Commercial) Bid. 
 
2.1.3.2 Attributes in General Technical Evaluation (GTE) 
 
 Bidders shall certify their compliance by accepting the following General Technical 
Evaluation (GTE) condition of the Tender at e-Tender Portal prior to the submission 
of Bid : 
 
“Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding Document?” 
 
                    By accepting above GTE, Bidder shall certify their compliance to all provisions of 
Bidding Documents including but not limited to the following important provisions: 
 
(a) All provisions of Bidding Document. 
(b) Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
(c) Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings of NTPC. 
(d) Clause “Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares 
a land border with India. 
(e) All provisions of the Integrity Pact. 
(f) Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy of NTPC 
(g) Clause 48.0 “Conflict of Interest” 
Acceptance of above GTE shall be considered as Bidder's confirmation that 
any deviation to the any provision found anywhere in their Bid Proposal, 
implicit or explicit, shall stand unconditionally withdrawn, without any cost 
implication whatsoever to the Employer, failing which the bid shall be 
rejected and bid security shall be forfeited.  
 
Note: The Techno-Commercial Bid should not contain any price content entry. 
In case, the Techno -Commercial Bid is found to contain any price 
content, such bid shall be liable for rejection. 
 Bids cannot be submitted without acceptance of above GTEs. 
 
 
2.1.3.3 The Price Bid (Envelope-II) shall comprise of the following: 
The Price Bid submitted by the Bidder shall comprise of the following: 
The Bill of Quantity (BOQ) consisting of the  total amount / percentage (as 
applicable) against each head is to be submitted on the e -tender portal 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/.  
2.1.3.4 SUBMISSION OF BIDS 
 
The Bid (comprising the Techno -commercial, Price Bid  & BOQ ) shall be 
submitted simultaneously at the https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ through e -tender 
mode in the manner specified in the bidding document. 
                       
Bidder shall upload the complete Bid, Attachments and BOQ along with all 
annexures on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. Bidders to ensure that 
all uploaded documents must be digitally certified. 
 
Bidder to further ensure that documents uploaded online are being 
downloaded properly. Employer shall not be responsible for corrupt 
files, if any, uploaded online by bidder. Further file related to particular 
Attachment/Schedule including their annexures/  appendices, if any, 
shall be given name of that Attachment/Schedule only 
 
The Owner, at its discretion, may hold post bid discussions with the bidder(s) 
to discuss the issues (if any). 
 
2.2 UNDERSTANDING AND CLARIFICATIONS ON BID DOCUMENTS 
 
The bidder is required to carefully examine the bid documents and fully inform 
himself as to all the conditions and matters which may in any way affect the works 
or the cost thereof. If any bidder finds discrepancies or omissions in the 
specifications and documents or is in doubt as to the true meaning of any part,  he 
shall  at once but in no case later  than seven (7) days prior to the deadline for 
submission of techno -commercial bids, request clarifications in writing. For this 
purpose, the Owner will consider to respond to only those clarifications, which are 
received not later than seven (7) days prior to the deadline for submission of bids 
prescribed by the Owner. The Employer will post the Clarifications  at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and Bidders can view these Clarifications once they are 
posted. Bidders are requested to regularly check https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
regarding posting of clarification, if any.  After receipt of such 
amendments/interpretations/clarifications, the bidder may submit his offer but 
within the time and date as specified. All such amendments and clarifications shall 
form an integral part of the specifications and accompany the PMC/PEA’s proposal.  
 
Verbal clarifications and information given by the owner or his employee(s) or his 
representative(s) shall not in any way be binding on the Owner.  
 
2.3 DISCREPANCIES AND ADJUSTMENT OF ERRORS 
 
2.3.1 If there are varying or conflicting provisions of the bid documents, NTPC shall be 
deciding authority with regard to the intention of the document. 
 
2.3.2 Any errors in description, quantity or rate in Schedules or any omission there from 
shall not vitiate the Contract or release the Contractor from the execution of the 
whole or any part of the works comprised there in according to drawings and 
specifications or from any of his obligations under the contract.  
 
2.4 SIGNATURE OF BIDS/OFFERS 
 
2.4.1 The bid including all documents attached at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ shall be 
digitally certified using Class-III signature by a duly authorised representative of the 
Bidder to bind him to the contract. The authorization shall be indicated by written 
power of attorney as per clause 2.1.3.1 .1 (b) and shall be uploaded at Fee 
Cover/Envelope at on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
 
2.4.2 Offers by Corporation/Company must be digitally signed by the persons authorized 
to furnish offer on behalf of such corporation/Company in the matter.  
 
2.4.3 The bidder’s name stated on the proposal shall be the exact legal name of the firm 
and shall be the same as that registered with NTPC.  
 
2.4.4 A power of attorney, duly notarized by a Notary Public, indicating that the person 
signing the bid has the authority to sign the bid (and that the bid is binding upon the 
Bidder during the full period of its validity in accordance with Clause 2.0. 
 
(The Authority of the person/ Board Resolution in this regard issuing the Power of 
Attorney shall also be submitted). 
 
Further, Bidder to note that bid can be submitted/ digitally signed by only one 
person. The power of Attorney must be in the name of person digitally signing the 
bids. 
 
3.0 SCOPE OF WORK 
 
3.1 PMC/PEA shall be responsible for the entire scope of Railway siding ang MGR works 
(including Jayant loading point and connectivity of MGR  with Jayant/NCL Silo-3) and 
their successful commissioning including OHE and S&T works and getting the work 
executed through the “contractors” engaged for and on behalf of Owner and successful 
commissioning of OHE and S&T System including Associated Electrical & Mechanical 
System Package. The scope of work also includes all testing and trial for 
commissioning of various sub- systems for MGR and Railway Siding system as per terms 
& conditions specified in the bidding document/agreed between PMC/PEA and Owner. 
 
3.2 The scope of work for the PMC/PEA for successful commissioning  of  the system shall 
include the following: 
 
i) Detailed Scope of work shall be as per Terms of Reference (TOR) as enclosed. 
 
ii) DPR, Detailed Engg., Preparation of tender documents, calling tenders/ NIT 
and award of all packages to various contractors for execution of the work. 
 
iii) Procurement of all permanent way materials and other materials required 
for work at site (other than agreed to be issued by NTPC, if any) including 
follow-up and receipt, safe custody and handling of the same at site. 
 
iv) Execution of all associated civil works departmentally or through 
contractors including earthwork, permanent way, minor/major bridges, 
culverts, drainage system, plant drains, Nallah crossings including laying of 
underground hume pipes, overhead cables etc. complete for successful 
commissioning of the Railway Siding and MGR system and obtaining necessary 
approvals from Railways  (as required). 
 
v) Execution of all service building including  their electrification (Cabins, offices, 
stores, workshop building etc.). Further, any other building/facility (if 
required) during execution of the contract. 
 
vi) Dressing of the formation top, ballasting, track laying for complete Railway 
Siding and MGR system including testing and commissioning of tracks. 
 
vii) Proper maintenance of tracks for a period of 06 months  after successful 
commissioning. (This clause needs to be included in the scope of respective 
contractors, engaged by PMC/PEA  for execution/construction work without 
any extra cost/ additional BOQ items). 
 
viii) Procurement and installation of S&T and OHE. 
 
ix) Erection of level crossings. 
x) Re-grading of roads, dismantling of existing built-up structures along 
the proposed Railway Siding and MGR, if any. 
 
xi) Procurement of plant and machinery including follow up and receipt, 
safe custody and handing over the same to NTPC at site. 
 
xii) Testing and trials for commissioning of various sub-systems including 
permanent way, OHE and Signaling & Telecommunications. 
 
xiii) Commissioning of the transportation system of the Railway Siding and 
MGR. 
 
xiv) Launching schemes and workshop fabrication drawings as required 
shall be checked by “PMC/PEA” at his costs. 
 
xv) PMC/PEA consultant has to carry out Geo-Technical Study, Detailed 
Engineering and Proof Check of design and drawing from any IIT. 
 
Note: Bidder’s scope includes all related works for the proposed Railway siding and MGR 
system though not explicitly mentioned but required to make the system complete. 
 
3.3. The project management, construction and commissioning of the 
complete system shall be done strictly as per Railways/RDSO guidelines.  
Any observations of railways during site inspections should be suitably  
addressed by PMC Consultants. 
 
3.4 The work towards shifting HT/LT and other utilities shall be in the scope of 
PMC Consultant. However, all assistance required shall be provided by NTPC 
as and when required. 
 
3.5 All the above works shall be executed by “PMC/PEA” in accordance with the 
design, technical specifications and drawings prepared by PMC/ PEA and 
approved by Railways/NTPC. 
 
3.6 PMC/PEA shall furnish 3 sets of soft copies of all reports & as constructed 
drawing copies in Pen drive to NTPC. 
 
3.7 The ownership of the entire work as mentioned in the bidder’s scope shall 
rest with NTPC. 
 
WORK SCHEDULE for PMC: 
 
Sl. No. Activity From the date of Letter 
of Award 
Start (In 
Months) 
Finish (In 
Months) 
1.0 Finalization 
package list 
of execution strategy and contract 08 10 
2.0 Tendering and award of MGR and Railway siding 
Packages (Earth work, Rail procurement & laying,  
Formation work, Bridge & culverts, Misc. buildings etc.) 
10 14 
3.0 Construction of MGR and Railway Siding System civil 
works (Earth work, Rail laying, Formation work & P- 
way works, Bridge & culverts and interconnection etc.) 
12 24 
4.0 Construction of Miscellaneous  Buildings. 14 24 
5.0 Tendering and award of MGR and Railway siding Package 
for Electrical, OHE and S&T  works 
14 18 
6.0 Execution of MGR/Railway siding Package Electrical, 
OHE & S&T 
16 28 
6.0 Dry Engine Run  29 
7.0 Completion of all facilities  30 
 
 
4.0 COST ESTIMATE 
 
4.1 The estimated Direct Cost towards construction of the above scope of work is INR 24442.21/- 
Lakh as per the break-up provided at Annexure-A4. 
 
 
4.2  FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT, prepared by M/s MGR Infra Techno Economic Services 
(MGRITES) is enclosed. 
 
5.0     CONSIDERATION OF CONTRACT 
 
5.1 For the entire scope of services to be performed by PMC/PEA, NTPC shall pay on the basis of 
‘Direct Cost’, which shall include the following: 
 
a) Cost of all materials procured for incorporating in works including transportation, loading, 
insurance, unloading and taxes & duties. Charges for inspection, to be performed either 
by PMC/PEA or any other inspection agency appointed by PMC/PEA directly, are not 
to be included in direct cost. 
 
b) Amounts to be paid to Contractors engaged for carrying out works under the contract. 
 
c) Cost of all office buildings, storage sheds as approved and mutually agreed by NTPC. 
 
d) Earnest money deposit forfeiture, interest earned on short term deposits if any and 
miscellaneous revenue receipts shall be credited to NTPC.  
 
e) Any variation in amount payable to contractor as per the award of arbitration shall be borne 
by Owner and the same shall not be included under Direct Cost for the purpose of 
determination of fees payable to PMC/PEA. However, appointment of defense counsel, 
wherever required shall be done by PMC/PEA with the prior approval of Owner with regard 
to such appointment and the cost. Further, arbitrator’s fees as well as defense counsel’s 
fees (if applicable) shall be paid/reimbursed by NTPC and shall not be included under Direct 
Cost for the purpose of fee payable to PMC/PEA. 
 
f) Cost towards safe custody of materials directly procured by PMC/PEA till the appointment 
of the contractor to whom materials are to be issued for execution. However, in case of 
contingency arrangement for storage of material directly procured by PMC, PMC shall float 
tender for the work separately and for such tender, NTPC approval shall be sought. 
 
5.2 PMC/PEA shall be paid a fee towards project management by the Owner. The fee shall include 
PMC/PEA’s all site expenses,  inspection charges for inspection carried out by PMC/PEA or 
any other agency appointed by PMC/PEA , overheads & profits and which are not separately 
payable. The percentage of estimated Direct Cost shall be furnished in Bill of Quantity (BOQ) 
of NTPC e-tender site. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Project Management fee of  INR……………………………………   (excluding GST) calculated 
@ …………. % of estimated Direct Cost  (excluding GST)  of 
INR…………………………………… 
  
The above fee shall remain valid for (+/- )10% variation of the estimated Direct Cost. In case 
the variation is more than +/ - 10% of the estimated Direct Cost on account of increase / 
decrease in quantities necessitated during execution or increase/ decrease in the scope of 
work, the above fees will be increased or decreased proportionately for the entire variation 
including +/- 10%. 
 
Further, in case of additional works carried out by PMC/PEA at the instance of NTPC, not 
covered in DPR, consultancy fee for Project Management shall be based on NIT cost estimate 
or awarded direct cost whichever is lower for such work/package identified by the 
Owner/PMC/PEA. However, price adjustment formula as specified in clause no. 11.0 (c) shall 
not be applicable for such additional work. 
 
The fee to be paid to PMC/PEA does not include GST which shall be paid as per actual.   
 
Fee, levied by Indian Railways or any other department, for any services rendered by them, 
shall be paid directly by NTPC to the Railways/department and shall be excluded from the 
Direct Cost and no fee will be payable to PMC/PEA on such direct payments to Railways 
/Department. 
 
Any increase or decrease of PMC/PEA Fee shall be worked out based on the unit rate adopted 
in the Estimated Direct Cost furnished along with the bidding documents/DPR. 
 
 
Detailed Procedure for deriving PMC fee on account of Scope Change/qty variation for bridges 
and Sheds & Buildings is presented at Annexure-A5. The format for preparation of post 
award variation statement is placed at Annexure A6. 
 
5.3  CONSULTANCY FEE FOR DPR & DETAILED ENGG. 
 
INR ……………… [Inclusive of all taxes, duties, levies, insurance charges, licence fee etc.], 
however excluding GST which shall be paid as per actuals. Detailed breakup for Consultancy 
Fee for Design (DPR and detailed  Engineering) is to be furnished in Bill of  Quantity (BOQ) of 
NTPC e-tender site. 
 
 
6.0 SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS FROM DIRECT COST 
  
The specific exclusions from Direct Cost shall be as elaborated but not limited to the following: 
a) All expenses incurred by PMC/PEA for their head office, site office and those  in relation 
to technical co -ordination, procurement and its follow -up (All establishment expenses 
incurred by PMC/PEA for their head office and those in relation to technical co-ordination, 
Procurement and its follow -up including inspection by either PMC/PEA or any other 
agency appointed by PMC/PEA) NIT is to be hosted on website.  
 
 All activities regarding preparation of drawings, in connection with setting out of works 
including field survey etc., drawings for phase of working, temporary arrangement, 
launching schemes for approval from Railways as required shall be carried out by 
PMC/PEA and all related costs shall be excluded from direct cost.  
 
        However, the work of preparation of fabrication drawings only shall be included in the 
scope of the contractors engaged by the PMC/PEA. PMC/PEA shall be responsible for 
checking the correctness of such fabrication drawings submitted by the contractors, as 
per RDSO/Railway guidelines. 
 
b) Salaries/wages, P.F.(s)/Pensions and other perquisites paid to staff and labour directly 
employed by PMC/PEA for follow up, receipt, safe custody of material and execution of 
work at site. 
 
c) Cost of direct field supervision at site. 
 
d) All expenses related to official and residential accommodation acquired by PMC/PEA and 
their maintenance at places other than the project site.  
 
e) Establishments charges including essential expenses related to accommodation, 
furnishing and maintenance of office. 
 
f) All expense including salaries, allowances, travel expenses for personnel identified as 
related to inspection activities. 
 
g) Cost of all necessary insurance for plants and equipment provided by PMC/PEA and 
Insurance of PMC/PEA’s personnel, if any.  
 
h) All capital cost for procurement of tools, plants and equipment incurred by PMC/PEA / 
Contractors. 
 
i) Charges (excluding penalty), if any, levied by Railways or any other Govt. /State 
department for any services rendered by them, which shall be paid directly by NTPC to 
the Railways/ concerned department.  
 
j) Temporary quarters constructed and maintained for PMC/PEA’s staff. 
  
7.0     COST CONTROL 
 
7.1 The PMC/PEA shall maintain separate bank account(s) at the respective Project site(s) for the 
money drawn by him from NTPC for the work. This money shall be utilized only for execution 
of the contract for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW).  
 
7.2 For effective cost control, all drawings shall have bill of quantities for major items and shall have 
approval by NTPC or PMC/PEA before they are released for construction purposes. However, 
the approval by NTPC shall not relieve PMC/PEA of their responsibilities. Further, a quarterly 
statement shall be furnished by PMC/PEA for NTPC’s review indicating the actual quantities of 
work executed, their variance from the quantities identified in the finalized FR and reasons for 
the same. In addition, progress reports shall be furnished by 7 th of every month giving details 
up to the end of previous month and program for next three months.  
 
 NTPC clearance is required for drawings for in -plant where layout has interface with other 
facilities. 
  
 Periodical (monthly/quarterly) project expenditure statement along with bank statement shall 
be furnished by “ PMC/PEA” for NTPC's review indicating the work executed and program for 
next one month/quarter. 
 
7.3 Any proposal for upward/downward revision of cost estimate indicated at para 4.1 on account of 
change in scope, quantities, indicated in FR or any other reason shall have reasoned vetting of 
Project Technical Services/Field Engg. of NTPC, Corporate Engineering with the concurrence of 
Project Finance of NTPC. PMC/PEA (if required) shall prepare an updated NIT cost estimate for 
each package. The updated cost estimate for the purpose of NIT shall however be vetted by 
Project Finance and Execution Department of Owner. 
 
7.4   In case of Variation in cost at the time of award of package with respect to NIT Cost Estimate or 
for change in specification / quantities / scope during execution having additional financial 
implication prior approval from NTPC shall be obtained by PMC/PEA as follows: 
 
7.4.1   The approval of such proposal shall be conveyed to PMC/PEA within 45 days from the date of 
its receipt. 
        
7.4.2   Whenever the lowest & responsive bid price of any package to be awarded by PMC/PEA exceeds 
NIT cost estimate by 10% of the respective package, the award recommendation by PMC/PEA 
shall necessarily be routed through NTPC’s Engineer -in-charge. The PMC/PEA shall consider 
the observations / comments / remarks of NTPC while finalizing the Contract.  Further, during 
execution, in case of any variation in quantities or scope change, if the revised estimated cost of 
respective package exceeds NIT cost estim ate by 10%, PMC/PEA shall submit details of cost 
along with justifications, for consideration/approval of NTPC.  
        
7.4.3   Whenever the Consolidated cost estimate for the work i.e. entire Railway Siding Package 
(aggregate of value of different packages awarded & cost estimate for the other packages yet to 
be awarded) exceeds the total estimated direct cost indicated at para 4.1 of terms and conditions, 
the PMC/PEA shall submit the details of increase in cost along with justifications for approval of 
NTPC.   
 
7.5 Release of payments against any proposal for upward revision of cost estimate on account of 
change in scope, quantities during execution of any package/s as indicated in the BOQ or for 
any other reason  on compliance with 15(a),15(g) would be regulated  (provided total cost 
estimate of the entire Railway Siding exceeds the total estimated direct cost indicated at para 
4.1 of terms and conditions or total estimated cost including variation, if any, of any package 
awarded by PMC/PEA during execution, exceeds NIT Cost Estimate by 10% of the respective 
package) as per the following payment terms 
 
 (i)   75% of the applicable payment shall be released on vetting / approval of such proposal by 
Project Technical Services with the concurrence of Project Finance. 
 
(ii)   Balance 25% of the applicable payment shall be released on approval of NTPC and 
issuance of the amendment to Contract(s) by PMC/PEA to their Contractors.              
 
8.0      TERMS OF PAYMENT:  
 
8.1      Advances 
 
a) NTPC shall release interest free advances @ 10% of the Project management Fee  
(referred at para 5.2) payable towards mobilization of resources at site on fulfillment of 
following conditions: 
 
i) Unconditional acceptance of letter of award. 
 
ii) Submission of unconditional Bank Guarantees of equivalent amount initially valid upto 3 
months after the completion period from any bank listed at Annexure-A1 and in the 
prescribed format placed at Annexure-A, which shall be extended by PMC/PEA from time 
to time as required by NTPC. The bank guarantee so submitted shall be reduced 
proportionate to the advance recovered from their fees once in every six months. The 
advance will be recovered @ 10% of amount due as fee from their fee bills submitted to 
NTPC till such time the advance stands fully recovered.  
 
iii) Submission of detailed Project Schedule (PERT) conforming to the completion schedule as 
brought out at para 11.0 (b) later & its approval by NTPC. 
 
“Note: In case the PMC/PEA decides not to take advance payment, the advance 
payment shall be proportionately adjusted in the progressive payment.” 
 
 
b) In addition to above, NTPC shall release following advance to PMC/PEA for the Direct 
Cost portion: 
 
Monthly advance towards cost of execution of work and procurement of materials in 
accordance with the agreed fund flow chart. This advance shall be released against 
furnishing an Indemnity Bond by PMC/PEA. The advance for procurement of materials 
shall be released to PMC/PEA in stages depending upon the procurement schedule along 
with submission of demand after order finalization on the suppliers/Contractors.  
 
The first installment shall be released against PMC/PEA’s requisition.  However,  the 
subsequent amounts shall be released against submission of statement of accounts for 
expenses incurred from the advance amount released in the previous months supported 
by trial  balance for the month, certified copies of rel evant documents in support  of 
expenses  incurred by PMC/PEA in that month.  
 
In addition, PMC/PEA shall arrange to furnish indemnity bond through the deployed 
contractors against owner issue materials, if any, in a Performa acceptable to NTPC.  
 
c)           NTPC shall release interest free advances @ 10% of the consultancy fee for DPR & 
Detailed Engg. (referred at para 5.3) payable towards mobilization of resources at site on 
fulfilment of following conditions: 
i) Unconditional acceptance of letter of award. 
 
ii)      Submission of unconditional Bank Guarantees of equivalent amount initially valid  upto 3 
months after the completion period from any bank listed at Annexure-A1 and in the 
prescribed format placed at Annexure-A, which shall be extended by PMC/PEA from time 
to time as required by NTPC. The bank guarantee so  submitted shall be reduced 
proportionate to the advance recovered from their fees  once in every six months. The 
advance will be recovered @ 10% of amount due  as fee from their fee bills submitted to 
NTPC till such time the advance stands fully recovered. 
 
iii)      Submission of detailed Project Schedule (PERT) conforming to the completion 
schedule as brought out at para 11.0 (b) later & its approval by NTPC. 
 
8.2 Terms of payment for direct cost & Fees shall be as under: 
 
a) All materials to be used for works under contract shall be procured and paid by PMC/PEA 
on behalf of NTPC, out of the advance amounts received by them as brought out above.  
 
Any payment to the Contractors shall be released by PMC/PEA directly. For this purpose, 
PMC/PEA shall furnish work execution statement to the Engineer -in-charge. The Owner 
(Engineer-in-charge) reserves the right of periodical checks/audit of bills (quarterly) and 
in case discrepancies/deficiencies, if any, are identified by the Owner, PMC/PEA shall 
make good the same under advice to the Owner. However, in case of final payment, all 
regularization/reconciliation shall be done prior to release of payment. 
 
All claims towards direct costs shall be made by PMC/PEA on the basis of actual 
payments made by them towards procurement of materials and execution of work.  
 
b) On completion of works, materials charged to the direct cost but not consumed for the 
works, whether serviceable or unserviceable or scrap or surplus shall be handed over to 
NTPC or disposed off in consultation with NTPC and necessary credit shall be given  to 
NTPC. 
 
c) At the end of each month from the date of award of contract, PMC/PEA shall submit a 
statement of accounts in formats to be approved by NTPC, setting forth therein all costs 
incurred by them during that month for procurement of materials and execution of work. 
Along with the above statements, PMC/PEA shall also submit the invoice for fee as 
mentioned at para 5.2 above. The fees shall be released by NTPC upon certification by 
Engineer-in-charge. 
 
d) From every invoice/bill of PMC/PEA, claiming fees NTPC shall withhold 10% of the 
amount of fees claimed as Retention Money. This retention money shall become due and 
payable to the PMC/PEA on the expiry of 15 months after completion of works at site in 
all respects (including removal of construction sheds etc.) and after obtaining the 
completion certificate from NTPC’s Engineer -in-charge in line with clause 1.20 above. 
However, if PMC/PEA desires, retention money shall be released on half -yearly basis 
against submission of a bank guarantee of equivalent amount as per the format prescribed 
by NTPC valid till 15 months beyond completion of entire works under the contract. 
 
e) All the statements of accounts and invoice / bills shall be submitted by the PMC/PEA in 
‘triplicate’ to the respective Engineer -in-charge at site and same shall be supported by 
relevant documents/vouchers etc. 
  
 
9.0      TERMS OF PAYMENT FOR CONSULTANCY FEE FOR DESIGN (DPR & DETAILED 
ENGINEERING) 
 
 Terms of Payment for consultancy fee for design (DPR and detailed engineering) are as under: 
 
SL
N
O 
ACTIVITY /STAGE %OF 
CONTRACT PRICE 
(a)  Mobilization advance 10 % 
(b) Revalidation of FR and its approval from Railways (if required) 
and Submission of draft DPR 
5 % 
(c)  Submission of Survey Report & Land Plan (if any) * 
*Amount is fully payable if land plan is not required. 
5 % 
(d) Submission of ESP, Plan & L-section including Railway clearance 
as applicable 
5 % 
(e) Submission of SIP, LOP, Station Working Rule including Railway 
clearance as applicable 
5 % 
(f) DPR approval from Railways 5 % 
(g) Submission of Final DPR (including Railway clearance/approval) 5 % 
after incorporating Railways observations & NTPC requirements 
(if any) for system augmentation 
(h) 
CIVIL ENGINEERING & OTHER MISC WORKS 
i. Submission of detailed specification, BOQ and cost estimates for all civil 
works viz. Earth work, slope stabilization, bridges, culverts, tracks, 
permanent way works, all buildings, workshop, FOB, ballast-less tracks, 
drainage system, block hut etc. and obtaining approvals from Railways, 
State/Central Govt. & other agencies as applicable. 
Details of deposit works also to be submitted (as/if required by Railways) 
5% 
 
ii. Submission of Geo-Technical Investigation Report 10 % 
iii
. 
Submission of GAD (General Arrangement Drawing), detailed design 
and drawing of all bridges and culverts after obtaining proof check from 
any IIT (Indian Institute of Technology). 
10 % 
iv
. 
Completion of detailed design & drawings for all civil works viz. rail track 
structure, earthwork, slope stabilization, bridges, culverts, control 
buildings, workshop, FOB, ballast-less tracks, drainage system, etc. and 
obtaining approvals from Railways, State/Central Govt. & other 
agencies as applicable 
10 % 
(i) 
SIGNALLING AND TELECOMMUNICATION (S&T) 
i. Submission of detailed system design of signaling and telecom facilities 
and plan including approvals from Railways State/Central Govt. Dept. & 
other agencies as applicable. 
5% 
ii. Submission of technical specifications, construction drawings, BOQ and 
cost estimates for signaling and telecom works, list of spares, tools and 
maintenance schedule etc. including approvals from Railways, 
State/Central Govt. Dept. and other agencies as applicable 
5% 
(j) 
OHE & General Electrical works  
i. Submission of plan and detailed system design for OHE works including 
approval from Railways as applicable 
5% 
ii.  Submission of technical specifications, tender drawings, BOQ and cost 
estimates, construction drawings etc. for the complete OHE system, list 
of spares, tools and maintenance schedule including approval from 
railways as applicable 
5% 
(k) General Electrical Works 
Submission of detailed system design & plans, technical specifications, 
construction drawings, BOQ and cost estimates for general electrical works 
as required 
5% 
 
  Payment shall be released progressively on certification of Engineer-In-Charge. 
 
 
 
 
10.0    RECORD OF ACCOUNTS 
 
a) PMC/PEA shall maintain regular records and accounts of all expenses incurred by him 
with respect to the direct cost of works under award. All these accounts shall be 
maintained in formats acceptable to NTPC and shall be subject to inspection and 
admittance by the engineer -in-charge and his duly appointed finance representatives. 
PMC/PEA shall depute their own internal auditors from their head office to audit these 
accounts, at their own expenses, at regular intervals of time and shall also arrange for 
audit by the statutory auditing authorities.  
  
b) On successful completion of work at the site and on physical handing over of the Railway 
Siding and MGR System to NTPC, PMC/PEA shall prepare and submit to NTPC the 
closing accounts duly approved by NTPC and other concerned authorities.  
 
11.0    Completion Schedule 
 
a)  It is specifically agreed that time is the essence of the contract and shall be strictly 
adhered to the detailed Time Schedule stipulated as stipulated in Terms and Conditions 
of Contract schedule 2. Follow as,  
 
DPR & Detailed Engg.: 
 
Sl. 
No. Activity From LOA date 
(in Months) 
1 Submission of draft DPR & ESP to NTPC for comments/ 
acceptance before submission to R a i l w a y s  02 
 
2 
Submission of Survey Report and Land P l a ns, 
Finalization of DPR & ESP and Submission to Railways/ 
NTPC (as applicable) for   approval/acceptance 
 
02-03 
3 Submission of Final DPR to NTPC including Plans and 
applicable approvals from Railways 04-06 
4 Submission of Technical specification, tender drawings, 
BOQ, detailed cost estimates etc. to N T P C  06-08 
 
 
5 
Obtaining Railways, State/Central Govt. Dept. and other 
agencies approvals of detailed design & drawings for all 
Civil, S&T, OHE and general electrical works viz. Rail track 
structure, bridges & culverts (including proof    check from 
IIT), control buildings etc. as   applicable 
 
 
08-11 
6 Submission of construction drawings to   NTPC 11-12 
 
PMC : 
 
 
Sl. No. 
 
Activity 
From the date of 
LOA Start (In 
Months) 
Finish 
(In 
Months) 1.0 Finalization 
package list 
of execution strategy and contract 08 10 
2.0 Tendering and award of MGR & Railway Siding 
Packages (Earth work, Rail procurement, Formation 
work, rail laying,  Electrical  and  S&T  Works, Bridges 
& culverts, Misc. Buildings etc.  
10 14 
3.0 Construction of MGR & Railway Siding civil works 
(Earthwork, Rail laying, Formation & P-way works, 
Bridges & Culverts and interconnection   etc.) 
12 24 
4.0 Construction of Miscellaneous Buildings 14 24 
5.0 Tendering & Award of MGR/Railway siding Package 
for OHE, Electrical and S&T Works 
14 18 
6.0 Execution of MGR/Railway siding Package Electrical, 
OHE and S&T Works 
16 28 
7.0 Dry Engine Run  29 
8.0 Completion of all facilities   30 
 
 
b) PMC/PEA shall prepare and submit detailed project schedule with a write up on the 
modality of operation proposed by him for the Contract within four weeks of award of 
contract. The schedule shall be discussed and mutually agreed to and shall form an 
integral part of agreement to be entered into between NTPC and PMC/PEA. The schedule 
shall be strictly followed by PMC/PEA while executing the work under this contract. 
 
c)  For any delays attributable to NTPC in execution of contract, project management 
consultancy (PMC/PEA) fee for the balance work beyond the end of contractual 
completion schedule shall be adjusted and payable/recoverable as per the formula and 
illustration given at Annexure-A3.  
 
12.0     PMC/PEA’s Personnel 
 
a) PMC/PEA shall depute to project site the required personnel along with necessary 
supporting staff as may be discussed and mutually agreed to with Engineer-in-Charge at 
site. Further, PMC/PEA shall ensure that persons engaged for the work shall have proven 
integrity, competence and overall sound reputation.     
 
 PMC/PEA shall identify ‘procurement cells’ in his site organization comprising of 
personnel to perform procurement and inspection activities as to be mutually agreed 
between NTPC and PMC/PEA. During the course of execution of the work, if found  
necessary and approved by NTPC’s Engineer-in-charge, PMC/PEA shall be permitted to 
depute more persons as to be approved by NTPC so as to achieve the desired progress 
of work, if found necessary and instructed by NTPC’s Engineer-in-Charge.  
 
b) PMC/PEA shall submit within 15 days of award of contract a detailed schedule of 
deployment of his manpower placement schedule in all concerned areas including quality 
control and safety for supervision of the work to Engineer-in-Charge for approval of NTPC. 
 
c) In the head office PMC/PEA shall nominate a senior officer for this project who will 
coordinate with NTPC corporate office at New Delhi/NOIDA for progress and monitoring 
the work and shall visit site from time to time for guiding and coordinating the field  
activities. He will be assisted by necessary technical staff at the PMC/PEA’s headquarter 
office who  are specialist in specified fields, such as earthwork, bridges, pre -stressed 
concrete work, track works, girder erection work etc. and  will keep NTPC noti fied 
periodically about the person deployed at site for the work.  
 
d) PMC/PEA personnel when posted to the site, shall abide by the general instruction as 
may be given by the respective Engineer-in-charge from time to time and shall not involve 
themselves in any local politics.  
 
e) NTPC reserves the right to request PMC/PEA for replacement of his personnel, if not 
found suitable by the Engineer -in-charge, of NTPC. PMC/PEA in all such cases will 
replace the person within a reasonable time up-to a maximum of thirty days.  
 
13.0     COMPLETION CERTIFICATE  
 
13.1  PMC/PEA shall maintain a log book at site incorporating therein the progress of work during the 
execution of contract. During execution of the work, PMC/PEA shall submit monthly progress 
reports and on completion shall intimate the Engineer -in-charge in writing. Within 30 days of 
receipt of such information the Engineer -in-charge shall physically inspect the works and log 
book and shall furnish PMC/PEA with a certificate of completion indicating: 
 
a) Date of completion; 
 
b) Defects to be rectified by Contractors appointed by PMC/PEA. PMC/PEA shall remain 
liable rectifying defects etc. in the work executed by Contractors appointed by PMC/PEA 
upto 12 months after issue of completion certificate. 
 
c) Part of work completed for which payment may be authorized towards the charges claimed 
by them. 
 
For the purpose of this clause the work shall be considered completed in full on the day when 
PMC/PEA has completely been removed  from the premises, all sheds, surplus material, 
rubbish, etc. stage wise/package wise. Further, PMC/PEA shall ensure that the defect liability 
period/warranty period of individual package awarded during execution of Contract is valid upto 
12 months after completion of schedule period (as per Clause no. 11.0 above) of the entire 
Railway Siding Package.   
 
The Bank Guarantee & Insurance charges of extended period on account of delays attributable 
to the owner shall be reimbursed at actuals based on the written request of PMC/PEA. 
 
The reimbursement of BG charges shall be made on the basis of documentary evidence 
submitted by the Contractor (such as debit advice of Bank) along with a Certificate from the 
issuing Bank, as per the format enclosed at Form-2).  
 
Further, the reimbursement of Insurance charges shall also be made on the basis of 
documentary evidence submitted by the Contractor. In addition, the Contractor should obtain 
Insurance Policy directly from the Insurance Company and not through Brokers.  
 
The aforesaid reimbursement of Bank Guarantee Charges and Insurance Charges shall be 
inclusive of GST. 
 
 
13.2 The Engineer or his authorized representative shall hold progress review meetings at site and 
the Project Manager shall be required to attend all weekly site progress meetings. The 
deliberations in the meetings shall inter -alia include the weekly program, progress of work 
(including details of manpower, tools & plants deployed by the Project Manager or his contractors 
vis-a-vis agreed schedule), inputs to be provided by Owner, delays, if any and recovery program, 
specific hindrances to work and work instructions by Engineer or his authorized representative. 
The minutes of the weekly meetings shall be recorded in triplicate in a numbered register 
available with the Engineer or his authorized representative . These recordings shall be jointly 
signed by the Engineer or his authorized representative and the Project Manager and one copy 
of the signed records shall be handed over to the Project Manager. 
 
13.3 The following documents shall form the principal basis for Consideration of Time Extension with 
or without LD, levy of liquidated damages and settlement of extra claims during the execution of 
contract: 
 
1.   The joint recordings in the weekly meetings register and Logbook. 
 
2.   Records of Technical Coordination Meetings, if any. 
 
3.   Records of Contract Review meetings, if any. 
 
4.  Written notices issued by Engineer or his authorized representative to Project Manager in the 
relevant period. 
 
14.0      LIQUIDATED DAMAGES FOR DELAYS 
 
14.1 In case of any delay in execution of contract, in part or full, beyond the completion date 
stipulated in the Contract including any Time extension as may be granted by NTPC in writing 
for the reasons solely attributable to PMC/PEA, PMC/PEA shall pay to NTP C or shall permit 
NTPC to recover from the amounts due to PMC/PEA a sum equal to half (1/2) percent of 
PMC/PEA’s fee towards project management for the part or work so delayed, per week of delay 
or part thereof. The total liability of PMC/PEA under this clause shall be subject to maximum of 
10% of his fee.  
 
15.0      RESPONSIBILITY OF PMC/PEA 
 
a) For the purpose of  achieving the desired progress of work and for Contracting etc., the 
work shall be split into packages and the package list shall be finalized after approval of 
NTPC’s Engineer-in-charge at site to enable early and quick award of packages. 
 
The PMC/PEA shall be responsible for preparation of all tender documents including those 
for the material plant and equipment for the purpose of Contracting. Further, the PMC/PEA 
shall also perform all necessary re -engineering, which may be necessary and s hall be 
responsible for entire field engineering co -ordination with Contractors at site.  The 
PMC/PEA shall ensure the completeness of engineering involved and shall be responsible 
for all necessary detailed engineering.  
 
For each contract, PMC/PEA shall finalize updated cost estimate before issue of NIT. The 
cost estimate shall be vetted by Project Finance & Execution Department of NTPC. 
PMC/PEA shall, however, furnish justification/basis for revision(s) with respect to 
corresponding DPR provision. 
 
Each Package as identified shall be awarded by PMC/PEA as per their Procurement 
policy & Delegation of Power for and on behalf of NTPC. After award of each such 
package, PMC/PEA shall forward certified copies of Contract documents along with all 
supporting tender documents to NTPC’s Engineer-in-charge. 
 
PMC/PEA shall furnish the revised Cost Estimate for the entire Coal Transportation 
System on 6 monthly basis. 
 
Please also refer Clauses 7.4.1, 7.4.2 & 7.4.3 above. 
 
b) The PMC/PEA shall be responsible for procurement of all the materials covered in the 
scope, including preparation of tender documents as applicable, evaluation of bids, 
finalization of awards of supply orders, inspection, coordination with the suppliers an d 
necessary follow-up so as to ensure the timely receipt of all necessary materials at site.   
 
c) The PMC/PEA shall be responsible for the construction supervision including storage and 
handling of the materials, plant and equipment and measurement of works for all items of 
work covered under their scope of work, and shall coordinate with all agencies involved in 
the execution of the same and shall be responsible for achieving the scheduled completion 
dates.  
 
The PMC/PEA shall co -ordinate the field work at the site with other agencies involved, 
including zonal Railways for necessary clearances and approvals and from local 
authorities (if necessary) and shall assist NTPC in issue of notices to concerned parties 
and local bodies for activities connected with the construction work. The PMC/PEA shall 
also assist NTPC in all matters pertaining to the execution of the agreement including 
preparation and finalization of the draft agreement with zonal Railways to be exe cuted 
after legal vetting by NTPC’s Law Department immediately after completion of the 
individual work.   
     
d) The PMC/PEA shall make all necessary arrangement with zonal railway for arranging the 
testing of railway siding system by bringing on them suitable locomotive and trailing loads 
(at Owner’s cost) and shall obtain the fitness certificate from the competent authority of 
railway and handover the same to NTPC as a proof of satisfactory completion of work.  
 
e) Adequate land shall be made available by NTPC before scheduled start of the work under 
the respective contracts. Further, PMC/PEA will identify the constraints, if any in 
availability of adequate working space or land during execution of work and assist NT PC 
in resolving associated issues. 
 
f) The PMC/PEA shall finalize the list of tools & plants to be incorporated in the documents 
for contracts in consultation with Engineer-in-Charge / NTPC and tie up of the same with 
the contractors while finalizing the contracts.  All such tools, plants and equipment will be 
mobilized at site within mutually agreed time schedule. No additional tools, plants and 
equipment will be brought to site by the PMC/PEA unless otherwise instructed by 
Engineer-in-Charge to achieve the desired progress of work. The PMC/PEA  shall be 
required to keep detailed log accounts of performance of all such tools, plant and 
equipment and shall be responsible for operation and maintenance of the same. 
  
g) The PMC/PEA shall be responsible for monitoring of the progress and cost of work as per 
the requirement of NTPC. In this regard, the PMC/PEA shall strictly comply with NTPC’s 
planning and budgeting systems requirement and will accordingly submit monthly 
progress report and other report as per NTPC’s prescribed formats. 
 
h) The PMC/PEA shall prepare a detailed coordination procedure at site within fifteen days 
of the award of contract.  
 
i) The PMC/PEA shall prepare as constructed drawing and furnish soft copies of constructed 
drawings (in CDs) to NTPC. The work of preparation of “As Constructed Drawings” shall 
be included in the scope of the Contractors engaged for the execution of various w orks. 
The PMC/PEA shall compile the above and submit the same to the owner in totality. 
 
Note:    
1. The above provisions will not be applicable in case the PMC/PEA proposes deployment 
of required plant and equipment in Contractor’s scope (Refer 15.0(f) above). 
2. NTPC shall not issue Power of Attorney to PMC/PEA for execution of the subject package. 
 
16.0 ASSISTANCE TO BE PROVIDED BY NTPC 
 
a) NTPC will render all necessary assistance to the PMC/PEA in procurement of controlled 
items. If, in order to maintain the construction schedule, it becomes necessary to procure 
such items from open market, the actual cost of such purchase will be borne by the 
PMC/PEA. 
 
b) While the PMC/PEA shall be associated with the project activities, necessary assistance 
shall be provided by PMC/PEA to NTPC for issue of necessary notification under the land 
acquisition act or any other act or institution of Government of  India or the State 
Government. 
 
c) In case any compensation is required to be paid for cutting of crops, gardens, or forests 
or for any other reasons arising out of the construction operations claims for the same 
shall be settled and paid by NTPC.  
 
d) NTPC shall arrange for acquisition of land required for execution of works and fulfillment 
of formalities with respect to the same.  
 
e) NTPC shall make available a layout plan in the area, so that the siding connections can 
be suitably planned. 
 
f) While NTPC shall render assistance to PMC/PEA in coordinating with coal companies in 
obtaining data/information in connection with execution of works, the PMC/PEA shall 
perform all necessary follow up on NTPC’s behalf in this regard.  
 
g) NTPC shall provide PMC/PEA’s personnel assigned to site the following facilities 
comparable to NTPC’s own personnel for similar categories. 
 
(i) Access to medical facilities to the PMC/PEA’s field personnel and their dependent 
family members who reside with them at site, during the period of assignment to the 
project site, on the same lines as that of NTPC personnel of equivalent status on 
payment for the same.  
 
(ii) Transport facilities for the children of the PMC/PEA’s personnel posted at site for 
going to school, wherever such facilities are available. 
 
(iii) NTPC shall provide furnished guest house accommodation to the PMC/PEA’s 
personnel visiting site on payment of charges laid down by NTPC for their own 
personnel of comparable categories subject to its availability.  
 
(iv) Quarters, if available, may be provided for PMC/PEA’s staff/officers on chargeable 
basis subject to availability at site. 
 
17.0     TAXES, DUTIES AND INSURANCE 
 
17.1 All taxes, duties & levies (including GST) and applicable surcharge/ cess on taxes, duties & 
levies, insurance charges, license fees, etc. including statutory variations during the currency 
of the contract applicable on transactions between the PMC/PEA and Contractors appointed 
by PMC/PEA, if any, shall be payable directly by P MC/PEA or Contractors appointed by 
PMC/PEA and NTPC will not have any liability whatsoever on this account. 
 
17.2 All taxes, duties & levies (other than GST as applicable on direct transaction between the 
PMC/PEA and Owner), applicable surcharge/ cess  on taxes, duties & levies, insurance 
charges, license fees, etc. including any statutory variations there to arising out of the contract 
shall be payable directly by PMC/PEA and shall be included in the project management fees 
for the entire scope of work. Owner will not bear any expenditure, whatsoever on this account. 
 
17.3 GST as applicable on direct transaction between Owner and the PMC/PEA under this contract 
(tax rates as applicable on 7 days prior to date of bid opening, component of contract price on 
which it is applicable and the total amount) will be indicated by the bid der separately in Bill of 
Quantity (BOQ) and GST including statutory variations & any new cess and/or levies there 
upon during the currency of the contract shall be payable/reimbursable by Owner. However if 
bidder fails to mention GST as applicable  on 7 days prior to date of bid opening on any 
component of the contract price and the same becomes payable by the PMC/PEA during 
execution, Owner will not be liable for reimbursement in this regard. 
 
17.4      (a)    As regards income tax, surcharge on income tax and other corporate taxes, including cess 
wherever applicable, the PMC/PEA shall be responsible for such payments to the 
concerned authorities.  
 
(b)  The Owner is entitled to deduct TDS as per the Government policies/tax rules and 
regulations. 
 
17.5 Tax liability, if any, on deputation of the Consultant's Personnel abroad shall also be borne by 
the PMC/PEA and shall be the responsibility of the PMC/PEA as per Tax Laws of India. 
 
17.6 The PMC/PEA shall be liable to take/maintain all necessary insurance at its own cost as 
applicable to them. Further, PMC/PEA will also ensure that their Contractors shall take/maintain 
all necessary insurance for their respective packages.  
 
17.7 The recovery of TDS shall be done by PMC/PEA on behalf of NTPC and deposited with the 
relevant Tax Authorities. 
  
18.0 SUSPENSION OF WORKS 
 
18.1 The PMC/PEA shall, on receipt of the order in writing of the NTPC’s Engineer -in-Charge, 
suspend the progress of the works or any part thereof for such time and in such manner as the 
Engineer-in-Charge may consider necessary for any of the following reasons: 
 
        i) On account of any default on part of the PMC/PEA or 
 
ii) For proper execution of the works or part thereof for reasons other than default of the 
PMC/PEA or 
iii) For safety of the works or part thereof. 
 
 The PMC/PEA shall, during such suspensions, properly protect and secure the works to the 
extent necessary and carry out the instructions given in that regard by the Engineer-in-Charge. 
 
 For the suspension being ordered for reasons (ii) and (iii) above, the PMC/PEA shall be entitled 
to an extension of time equal to the period of every such suspension plus 25% subject to 
approval of Engineer-in-Charge.  
  
Further, PMC/PEA may reduce their resources ( manpower and machinery) during the period 
of suspension or extended time beyond contract period for the reasons solely attributable to 
Owner as mutually agreed between PMC/PEA and Owner. 
  
19.0 SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTE    
 
19.1 Mutual Consultation 
 
If any dispute of any kind whatsoever shall arise between the Employer and the 
Contractor in connection with or arising out of the Contract, including without 
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, any question regarding its existence, 
validity or termination, or the execution of the Facilities, whether during the 
progress of the Facilities or after their completion and whether before or after the 
termination, abandonment or breach of the Contract, the parties shall seek to 
resolve any such dispute or difference by mutual consultation. 
 
On reference of such a dispute by either party, the Employer shall invite the 
Contractor for mutual consultation, within seven (07) working days of such 
reference. 
 
Without admitting the Employer’s liability, the Employer may obtain, within 30  days of such 
reference of the dispute, further details from the Contractor and examine it relating to the dispute. 
Such examination (if any) by the Employer shall not be construed as or imply acceptance of the 
claim or liability or accuracy or completeness of the details set forth in such request or reference. 
The Employer may hold discussions with Contractor with an effort to resolve the dispute.  If the 
parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation within a period of forty-
five (45) days from the date of receipt of reference of such dispute or within such extended period 
as the parties shall agree in writing, then  the dispute may be settled through Independent 
Engineer (if applicable) and/ or Mediation through Independent External Monitors (if applicable) 
and/or through Conciliation and/or Arbitration (if applicable) / other remedies available under the 
applicable laws. 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, 
the parties shall keep confidential all matters relating to the Mutual consultation 
proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to any agreement reached during 
Mutual consultation, except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of 
implementation and enforcement. 
 
The parties shall not rely on or treat as evidence in Independent Engineer/ 
Mediation/ Conciliation/ and in any way Arbitral or Judicial proceedings, whether 
or not such proceedings relate to the dispute that is the subject of the Mutual 
consultation proceedings 
 
a) views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a 
possible settlement of the dispute; 
 
b) admissions made by the other party in the course of the mutual consultation 
proceedings; 
 
c) the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to accept a proposal 
for mutual settlement 
  
 
19.2  Deleted 
 
19.3  Mediation through Independent External Monitors (IEMs) 
 
 If the parties fail to resolve a dispute or difference by mutual consultation and through 
Independent Engineer (if applicable) within a period specified at Cl. 19.1 above, the dispute, if 
the parties agree, may be referred to the Panel of IEMs for Mediation. 
 
 
The Mediation proceedings shall be completed in a time bound manner, in not 
more than 45 days from the date of reference to IEMs for Mediation. 
 
The IEMs may conduct the Mediation proceedings in the manner, they consider 
appropriate. In case of 3-member Panel of IEMs, 2 members will constitute a 
valid quorum and the meeting can take place to proceed in the matter after 
seeking consent from the member who is not available. However, IEMs 
recommendations will be signed by all the members. 
 
The fees for such meetings shall be as specified in the SCC. The travel and stay 
arrangement for such meetings shall be equal to that of Independent Board 
Member of Employer’s Organization. However, not more than five meetings shall 
be held for a particular dispute resolution. The fees/ expenses on dispute 
resolution shall be equally shared by both the parties. 
 
If decision of IEMs is acceptable to both the parties, a Settlement Agreement will 
be signed to the extent agreed by the parties within 15 days of acceptance by  the parties and 
same shall be authenticated by all the IEMs. 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, 
the Mediator and the parties shall keep confidential all matters relating to the 
Mediation proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to the settlement 
agreement, except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of 
implementation and enforcement. 
 
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Conciliation or Arbitral or  Judicial 
proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate to the dispute that  is the subject of the 
Mediation proceedings, — 
 
a) views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a 
possible settlement of the dispute; 
 
b) admissions made by the other party in the course of the Mediation 
proceedings; 
 
c) proposals made by the Mediator; and 
 
d) the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to accept a proposal 
for settlement made by the Mediator. 
 
 
19.4.  Resolution of Dispute through Conciliation 
 
 If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation and through 
Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through Mediation (if applicable) within a period as 
specified at Cl. 19.1  and 19.3 above, the dispute  if the parties agree, may be referred to 
Conciliation. 
 
(i) For cases where the disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is upto Rs. 25 Cr. (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation shall 
be referred to Expert Settlement Council (ESC), constituted by Employer 
 
(ii) For cases where the disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is above Rs. 25 Cr. (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation 
shall be referred to Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE), 
constituted by Ministry of Power (MoP). 
 
If the claim/Counter-claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange 
rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting 
the claim in Indian Rupee. 
 
The Conciliation process shall be conducted as per Part III of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996. 
 
19.4.1.  Resolution of Dispute through Expert Settlement Council (ESC), constituted by 
EMPLOYER {For cases with Disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) upto Rs. 25 Crore excl. interest} 
 
 If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation and through 
Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through Mediation (if applicable) within a period 
specified at Cl. 19.1 and 19.3 above, the dispute, if the parties agree, may be referred to 
Conciliation through Expert Settlement Council (ESC), in cases where the Disputed amount 
(Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher) is upto Rs.25 crore (excl. interest). 
 
 
19.4.1.1 Invitation for Conciliation through ESC: 
 
19.4.1.1.1  A party shall notify the other party in writing about such a dispute it wishes to refer for 
Conciliation through ESC within a period of 15 days from the date of failure to resolve the 
dispute through Mutual Consultation and Independent Engineer (if applica ble) and/or through 
Mediation (if applicable) within a period as specified at Cl. 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 above. Such 
Invitation for Conciliation shall contain sufficient information as to the dispute to enable the 
other party to be fully informed as to the nature of the dispute, amount of the monetary claim, 
if any, and apparent cause of action. 
 
19.4.1.1.2  Upon acceptance of the invitation to conciliate, the other party shall submit its counter claim, 
if any, within a period of 15 days from the date of the invitation to conciliate. If the other party 
rejects the invitation or Disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher) exceeds 
Rs 25 crore (excl. Interest), there will be no Conciliation proceedings through ESC. 
There shall be no Conciliation where disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher excl. 
interest) is only up to Rs 5 lakhs. 
 
19.4.1.1.3  If the party initiating Conciliation does not receive a reply within fifteen (15) days from the 
date on which it sends the invitation, or within such other period of time as specified in the 
invitation, it shall treat this as a rejection of the invitation to conciliate from the other party. 
 
19.4.1.2.0 Conciliation through ESC: 
 
19.4.1.2.1 Where Invitation for Conciliation has been furnished under GCC sub clause 19.4.1.1, the 
parties shall attempt to settle such dispute through Expert Settlement Council (ESC) which 
shall be constituted by CMD/Chairman of Employer. 
 
19.4.1.2.2 ESC will be formed from experts comprising three members from the panel of Conciliators 
maintained by EMPLOYER. However, there will be single member ESC for disputes involving 
disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher excl. interest) is up to Rs. 1 crore. 
 
              CMD/ Chairman of Employer shall have the authority to reconstitute the ESC to fill any vacancy. 
 
19.4.1.2.3 The ESC shall be amongst Civil Servants of Govt. of India retired from the level of Joint 
Secretary and above, Retired Judges, Officers retired from the level of Executive Director and 
above of any Maharatna /Navratna company in India, other than NTPC Ltd,  Retired 
Independent Directors who have served on the Board of any Maharatna / Navratna company 
in India, other than NTPC Ltd. 
 
19.4.1.3.0 Proceedings before ESC: 
 
19.4.1.3.1 The claimant shall submit its Statement of Claims (SOC) along with relevant documents to 
ESC members, and to the party(s) indicated in the appointment letter within 15 days of 
appointment of ESC. The respondent shall file its reply/Statement of Defence (SO D) and 
counter claim (if any) within 15 days of the receipt of the Statement of claims. Each party shall 
send a copy of such Statement along with relevant documents to the other party. 
 
              Parties may file their rejoinder/additional documents, if any in support of their 
Claim/Counterclaim within next 7 days. No documents shall be allowed thereafter, except with 
the permission of ESC. 
 
19.4.1.3.2 The parties shall file their claim and counterclaim in the following format 
 
a. Chronology of the dispute 
b. Brief of the contract 
c. Brief history of the dispute 
d. Issues 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Description of Claims/ 
Counter claims 
Amount (in foreign 
currency/INR) 
Relevant Contract 
Clause 
    
    
    
 
              Details of Claim(s)/Counter Claim(s) 
              Basis/Ground of claim(s)/counter claim(s) (along with relevant clause of contract 
 
              Note: Statement of claims shall be restricted to maximum limit of 20 pages. 
 
19.4.1.3.3 In case of 3 members ESC, 2 members will constitute a valid quorum and the meeting can 
take place to proceed in the matter after seeking consent from the member who is not available. 
However, ESC recommendations will be signed by all the members. 
 
              If required, meetings can be conducted through video conferencing/other digital means subject 
to the agreement between the parties and the ESC. 
 
19.4.1.3.4 The parties shall be represented by their in house  employees. No party shall be allowed to 
bring any advocate or outside consultant/advisor/agent to contest on their behalf. Ex -officers 
of Employer’s Organization who have handled the subject matter in any capacity shall not be 
allowed to attend and presen t the case before ESC on behalf of contractor. However, ex -
employees of parties may represent their respective organizations. Parties shall not claim any 
interest on claims/counter-claims from the date of notice invoking Conciliation till execution of 
settlement agreement, if so arrived. In case, parties are unable to reach a settlement, no 
interest shall be claimed by either party for the period from the date of notice invoking 
Conciliation till the date of ESC recommendations and 30 days thereafter in any further 
proceeding. 
 
19.4.1.3.5 ESC will conclude its proceedings in maximum 5 meetings and give its recommendations 
within 90 days from the date of reference to ESC. ESC will give its recommendations to both 
the parties recommending possible terms of settlement. CMD/ Chairman of Employe r may 
extend the time/number of  meetings, in exceptional cases, if ESC requests for the same with 
sufficient reasons and as agreed by the parties. 
 
19.4.1.3.6 Depending upon the location of ESC members and the parties, the venue of the ESC meeting 
shall be either Delhi/Mumbai/Kolkata/Chennai or any other city whichever  is most 
economical from the point of view of travel and stay etc. All the expenditure incurred in ESC 
proceedings shall be shared by the parties in equal proportion. 
 
19.4.1.4.0 Fees & Facilities to the Members of the ESC 
 
The cost of Conciliation proceedings including but not limited to fees  for 
Conciliator, Airfare, Local transport, Accommodation, cost towards conference 
facility etc shall be as provided herein below: 
 
Sl. No. Fees/ Facility Entitlement 
1 Fees Lumpsum fee of Rs. 2,50,000  per 
conciliator irrespective of the no.  of 
meetings. * 
2 Secretarial expenses Rs. 10,000 lump sum (to 1 member 
only). 
3 Transportation in the city of 
the meeting 
Car as per entitlement or Rs. 2,000 per 
day 
4 Venue for meeting Employer’s conference rooms 
Facilities to be provided to the out-stationed member 
5 Travel from the city  of 
residence to the city  of 
meeting 
As per entitlement of  Independent 
Directors. Executive class air tickets / first 
class AC train tickets/ Luxury  car/ 
reimbursement of actual fare.  However, 
entitlement of air travel by Business class 
shall be subject to austerity measures, if 
any, ordered by Govt of India. 
6 Transport to and fro 
airport/ railway station  in 
the city of residence 
Car as per entitlement or Rs. 3,000 
7 Stay for 
members 
out stationed As per 
Directors. 
entitlement of Independent 
8 Transport 
meeting 
in   the   city  of Car as per entitlement or Rs. 2000 per 
day 
 
* Due to unavoidable circumstances, if there is requirement of more than 5 meeting 
to conclude the Conciliation proceedings, the same may be done at the discretion of ESC 
within the capping of fee of Rs 2.5 Lakhs per conciliator. However,  logistic 
arrangements, including travel, etc. may be provided as per the extant Policy for such 
additional sittings. 
 
Aforesaid fees is subject to revision by Employer from time to time and   subject to government 
guidelines on austerity measures, if any. All the expenditure incurred in the ESC proceedings 
shall be shared by the parties in  equal proportions. The Parties shall maintain the account of 
expenditure and  present to the other for the purpose of sharing on conclusion of the ESC  
proceedings. 
 
19.4.1.5.0 If recommendations/ report of ESC is acceptable to both the parties, a Settlement Agreement 
under Section 73 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 will  be signed to the extent 
agreed by the parties within 15 days of acceptance by  the parties and same shall be 
authenticated by all the ESC members. 
 
Parties are free to terminate Conciliation proceedings at any stage as provided under the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996. 
 
19.4.1.6.0 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Conciliator 
and the parties shall keep confidential all matters relating to  the Conciliation proceedings. 
Confidentiality shall extend also to the  settlement agreement, except where its disclosure is 
necessary for purposes of implementation and enforcement. 
 
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral or judicial 
proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate to the dispute that is the subject 
of the Conciliation proceedings,— 
 
a) views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a 
possible settlement of the dispute; 
 
b) admissions made by the other party in the course of the Conciliation 
proceedings; 
 
c) proposals made by the Conciliator; and 
 
d) the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to accept a 
proposal for settlement made by the Conciliator. 
 
 
19.4.2.0  Resolution of Dispute through Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts 
(CCIE), constituted by Ministry of Power (MoP) {For cases with Disputed amount 
(Claim/ Counter claim whichever is higher) above Rs. 25 Crore excl. interest} 
 
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation and 
through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through Mediation  (if applicable) 
within a period specified at Cl. 6.1, 6.2, 6.3 above, the dispute, if the parties agree, may 
be referred to Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE), in cases where 
the Disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim whichever is higher) is above Rs. 25 crore 
excl. interest. 
 
19.4.2.1 Invitation for Conciliation through CCIE: 
 
19.4.2.1.1  A party shall notify the other party in writing about such a dispute it wishes to refer for 
CCIE within a period of 15 days from the date of failure to resolve the dispute  through 
Mutual Consultation and Independent Engineer (if applicable)  and/or through  Mediation (if 
applicable) within a period as specified at Cl. 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 above. Such Invitation for Conciliation 
shall contain sufficient information as to the dispute to enable the other party to be fully informed 
as to the nature of the dispute, amount of the monetary claim, if any, and apparent cause of action. 
 
19.4.2.1.2 If the party initiating Conciliation does not receive a reply within fifteen (15) days from the 
date on which it sends the invitation, or within such other period of time as specified in the 
invitation, it shall treat this as a rejection of the invitation to conciliate from the other party. 
 
19.4.2.2 Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts: 
 
19.4.2.2.1 Where Invitation for Conciliation has been consented to under GCC sub clause 19.4.2.1, 
the same shall be referred to the Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE) 
within 30 days. 
 
19.4.2.2.2 Conciliation Committees of Independent Experts (CCIE) have been constituted and 
notified by MoP for settlement of disputes arising in the Contract. There are three CCIEs, 
as specified in Special Conditions of Contract. 
 
19.4.2.2.3 The Contractor may select three CCIEs, in priority order, from the list of CCIEs enclosed 
with the Special Conditions of Contract, for finalization by Central Electricity Authority 
(CEA). 
 
There shall not be any conflict of interest for the members of the CCIE due to 
their past assignments. Individuals CCIE members shall submit  an 
undertaking in this regard to the Employer, prior to appointment . It shall be 
ensured that they have not been engaged for providing any services to any of the 
parties i.e. either Employer or the Contractor in the last five years. An Undertaking 
in this regard, shall also be furnished by the Contractor for the purpose of 
avoiding any conflict of interest. 
 
19.4.2.3 Proceedings before CCIE: 
 
19.4.2.3.1 The procedure of CCIE shall not be treated as alternate arbitration proceedings where 
both parties come with Statement of claims/defence, arguments/counter arguments, 
rejoinders, written submissions etc., aided by their respective lawyers. 
 
19.4.2.3.2 The parties shall be brief and to the point before the Committee with regard to their 
respective stance and view the exercise in the spirit of conciliation/settlement. 
 
19.4.2.3.3 The possibility of non-availability of any one of the members of CCIE in any proceedings 
cannot be ruled out. As such, the Committee comprising the other two members shall be 
competent to proceed in the matter. The proceedings of the Committee shall not be  
vitiated if one of the three members of CCIE is not present in the deliberations of the 
Committee. When the parties sign the settlement agreement, at least two members of 
CCIE shall authenticate the same. Such conciliation proceedings shall be considered valid 
and the settlement agreement will be binding on the parties. 
 
19.4.2.3.4 The parties shall be represented by their in house employees. No party shall be allowed 
to bring any advocate or outside consultant/advisor/agent to contest on their behalf. Ex -
officers of Employer’s Organization who have handled the subject matter in any capacity 
shall not be allowed to attend and present the case before CCIE on behalf of contractor. 
However, ex-employees of parties may represent their respective organizations. 
 
19.4.2.3.5 The Conciliation proceedings shall be completed in each case through 5 sittings in a 
period of not more than three months from the date the reference made to the CCIE. In 
exceptional cases, if any dispute so merits, the time period may be extended at the 
discretion of Conciliation Committee (with reasons to be recorded in writing), for a further 
period of three months. 
 
19.4.2.3.6 The CCIE shall hold day to day sitting at a suitable place (preferably the headquarter of 
the Employer or New Delhi) and may hold as many sittings every month as it deems 
appropriate keeping in view the volume of work. 
 
19.4.2.4 Fees & Facilities to the Members of the CCIE 
 
Each member of CCIE would be paid a sum of Rs. 50,000/- as sitting fee per 
sitting. In addition, Rs. 5,000/ - per sitting will be paid for local transport charges 
for each day of proceeding. 
 
In case, a particular dispute requires more than 5 sittings, the same may be held at 
the discretion of the CCIE but with a cap on payment of fee for 5 sittings only. The 
local transport charges shall, however, be paid as provided for each day of sitting 
beyond the 5 sittings. 
 
All expenditure incurred on the conciliation proceedings including payment of 
fees to the Conciliators, office space, logistic, secretarial assistance and  other 
incidental expenses etc. shall be borne by the Employer initially. Thereafter it 
shall be shared equally by both parties on completion of the conciliation process. 
 
19.4.2.5 The Parties shall maintain the account of expenditure and present to the other 
for the purpose of sharing on conclusion of the CCIE proceedings. 
 
The Conciliation process shall be conducted under Part III of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996. 
 
In case of failure of the conciliation process at the level of the Conciliation 
Committee, the parties may withdraw from conciliation process and take recourse 
to remedies as may be available to them under the applicable laws other than 
Arbitration. 
 
In the event of the conciliation proceedings being successful, the parties to the 
dispute would sign the written settlement agreement and the conciliators would 
authenticate the same. Such settlement agreement would then be binding on the 
parties in terms of Section 73 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 
 
After successful conclusion of proceedings, the Parties to the conciliation process, 
have to undertake and complete all necessary actions for implementation of the 
terms of settlement within a period of 30 days from execution of settlement 
agreement, unless a different timeline not exceeding 60 days is agreed upon in 
settlement agreement. All pending claims of parties, in connection with the dispute, 
before any other legal forum are to be withdrawn within the said 30 days in 
pursuance of the settlement agreement. 
 
19.4.2.6 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, 
the Conciliator and the parties shall keep confidential all matters relating to the 
Conciliation proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to the settlement 
agreement, ex cept where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of 
implementation and enforcement. 
 
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral or judicial 
proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate to the dispute that is the subject 
of the Conciliation proceedings, — 
 
a) views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a 
possible settlement of the dispute; 
 
b) admissions made by the other party in the course of the Conciliation 
proceedings; 
 
c) proposals made by the Conciliator; and 
 
d) the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to accept a 
proposal for settlement made by the Conciliator. 
 
19.5.0 Arbitration 
 
19.5.1 *If the process of mutual consultation and IE (if applicable)and/or Mediation (if applicable) and/or 
ESC fails to arrive at a settlement between the parties, Employer or the Contractor may, within 
Thirty (30) days of such failure, give notice to the other party, of its intention to commence 
arbitration, as hereinafter provided, as to the matter in dispute, and no arbitration in respect of this 
matter may be commenced unless such notice is given. The mechanism of settling  the disputes 
through arbitration shall be applicable only in cases where the disputed amount (i.e. Claim/ Counter 
claim, whichever is higher, excluding interest) is less than Rs. 10 crores. 
 
If the claim/ counter claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling  Exchange rate  
prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the claim in 
Indian Rupee 
 
In case the disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, excl. interest) 
is Rs. 10 Crores or above, the parties shall be within their rights to take recourse  to 
remedies as may be available to them under the applicable laws other than  Arbitration  
after  prior  intimation  to  the  other  party.  There  shall  be  no arbitration where the 
disputed amount (Claim/ counter claim, whichever is higher) is only up to Rs. 5 lakhs. 
 
 
The parties at the time of invocation of arbitration shall submit all the details of the 
claims and the counter -claims including the Heads/Sub -heads of  the 
Claims/Counter-Claims and the documents relied upon by the parties for their 
respective claims and counter-claims. The parties shall not file  any 
documents/details of the claims and counter-claims thereafter. 
 
The claims and the counter claims raised by the parties at the time of  invocation 
of the arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties and no further change 
shall be allowed in the same at any stage during arbitration under  any 
circumstances whatsoever. 
 
In case, multiple arbitrations are invoked (whether sub -judice or arbitral award 
passed) by any party under this contract, then the cumulative disputed amount 
(i.e. Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, excluding interest) in all such 
arbitrations shall be taken into account while arriving at the total disputed amount 
for the subject contract. Disputes having cumulative value less than Rs 10 crores 
shall be resolved through arbitration. In case the disputed amount (Claim/Counter 
claim, whichever is hig her, excluding interest) is Rs 10 crores and above, the 
parties shall be within their rights to take recourse to remedies as may be available 
to them under the applicable laws other than Arbitration after prior intimation to 
the other party. 
 
 
19.5.2 Any dispute in respect of which a notice of intention to commence  arbitration has been 
given, in accordance with GCC Sub Clause 6.5.1, shall be finally settled by arbitration. 
 
19.5.3 It is agreed between the parties that the Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted as 
per the provisions of Fast Track Procedure as provided under The Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996, as amended from time to time. 
 
Any dispute or difference raised by a party to arbitration shall be adjudicated by an arbitral 
tribunal consisting of three arbitrators, in the following manner: 
 
a) A party willing to commence arbitration proceeding shall invoke Arbitration Clause by giving 
notice to the other party. 
 
b) The EMPLOYER and the Contractor shall each appoint one arbitrator, and these two arbitrators 
shall jointly appoint a third arbitrator within 30 days, who shall act as presiding arbitrator of the 
arbitral tribunal. If the two arbitrators do not succeed in appointing a third arbitrator within 30 days 
of the latter of the two arbitrators has been appointed, the third arbitrator shall be appointed by 
the High Court of Delhi. 
 
c) If one party fails to appoint its arbitrator within 30 days after the other party has 
named its arbitrator, the party which has named its arbitrator may approach the 
High Court of Delhi to appoint the second arbitrator. 
 
d) If any member of the arbitral tribunal dies, resigns, becomes incapacitated or 
withdraws for any reason from the proceedings or his mandate is terminated by 
the Court, a substitute shall be appointed in the same manner as the arbitrator 
whose mandate has terminated as above. After substitution of new member, the 
arbitration tribunal shall proceed with reference from the stage where the mandate 
of the arbitrator has been terminated. 
 
 
e) Arbitrator tribunal shall be paid fees as per the Fee Schedule (presently Fourth 
Schedule) provided in ‘The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 ’ as amended 
from time to time. If the claim/ counter claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills 
Selling Exchange rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose 
of converting the claim in Indian Rupee which may be used for determining t he 
arbitration fee. 
 
f) If after commencement of the Arbitration proceedings, the parties agree to settle 
the dispute mutually or refer the dispute to mediation or Conciliation, the arbitral 
tribunal shall put the proceedings in abeyance until such period as requested by 
the parties. Where the proceedings are put in abeyance or terminated on account 
of mutual settlement of dispute by the parties, the fees payable to the arbitrator 
shall be determined as under: 
40% of the fees if the Pleadings are complete. 
60% of the fees if the Hearing has commenced. 
80% of the fees if the Hearing is concluded but the Award is yet to be passed. 
 
g) Each party shall pay its share of arbitrator’s fees in stages as under or as per the 
directions of Arbitrator: 
 
40 % of the fees on Completion of Pleadings. 
40% of the fees on Conclusion of the Final Hearing. 
20% at the time when arbitrator notifies the date of final award. 
 
h) The Claimant shall be responsible for making all necessary arrangements for the 
travel/ stay of the Arbitrator including venue of arbitration, hearings. The parties 
shall share the expenses for the same equally. 
 
i) The Arbitration shall be held at Delhi only. 
j) The arbitral tribunal shall give reasoned and speaking award in prompt manner 
and it shall be final and binding on the parties. 
k) Subject to the aforesaid conditions, provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996 and any statutory modifications or re -enactment thereof as amended 
from time to time, shall apply to the arbitration proceedings under this clause. 
 
19.5.4 In the event of any dispute or difference relating to the interpretation and 
application of the provisions of commercial contract (s) between Central 
Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs)/ Port Trusts inter se and also between 
CPSEs and Government Departments/  Organizations (excluding disputes 
relating to Railways, Income Tax, Customs & Excise Departments), such 
disputes or difference shall be taken up by either party for resolution 
through Administrative Mechanism for Resolution of CPSEs Disputes 
(AMRCD) as mentioned in DPE Office Memorandum No . 05/0003/2019-
FTS-10937 dated 14.12.2022 issued by Department of Public Enterprises, 
Government of India and its further clarifications, modifications and 
amendments, issued from time to time. 
 
The limit on disputed amount as mentioned at clause 6.5.1 above shall 
not be applicable and matter may be referred to AMRCD irrespective of the 
amount involved in dispute, if the dispute could not be resolved through  
Mutual Consultation and IE (if applicable) as brought out at GCC Sub 
Clause 19 .1 and 19.2 above. 
 
19.6.0 Notwithstanding any reference to the Independent Engineer or 
Mediation or Conciliation or Arbitration herein, 
 
(a) the parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations 
under the Contract unless they otherwise agree. 
 
(b) the Employer shall pay the Contractor any monies due to the Contractor. 
 
Settlement of Dispute clause cannot be invoked by the Contractor, if the Contract 
has been mutually closed or ‘No Demand Certificate’ has been furnished by  the 
Contractor or any Settlement Agreement has been signed between the Employer 
and the Contractor. 
 
 
20.0 NOT USED 
 
21.0 TERMINATION 
 
21.1    Termination for default: 
 
21.1.1 The owner may without prejudice to any other remedy for breach of contract, by 
written  notice  of default sent to PMC/PEA, terminate the contract  in whole or in 
part 
 
a) If the PMC/PEA fails to deliver any or all of  the services within the time 
period(s) specified in the contract or any extension thereof granted by the 
owner in writing. 
b) If the PMC/PEA fails to perform any other obligation(s) under the contract 
or; 
 
c) If the PMC/PEA in either of the above circumstances, does not cure its 
failure within a period of thirty (30) days after receipt of the default notice 
from the owner. 
 
d) If the PMC/PEA, sub -contracts any part of the works in violation of the 
provision of Clause 45.0  “Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a 
country which shares a land border with India”. 
 
21.1.2 In the event the Owner terminates the Contract in whole or in part, pursuant to 
para 21.1.1, the owner may get the works done, upon such terms and in such 
manner as it deems appropriate, similar to those parts not carried out by the 
PMC/PEA, and the PMC/PEA shall be liable to the Owner for any excess costs 
for such similar works. However, the PMC/PEA shall continue performance of 
the Contract to the extent not terminated. 
 
21.2 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE 
 
21.2.1 The Owner, may by written notice sent to the PMC/PEA, terminate the contract, 
in whole or in part, at any time for its convenience. The notice of termination shall 
specify that termination is for owner’s convenience, the extent to which 
performance of work under the contract is terminated and the date upon which 
such termination becomes effective. 
 
21.2.2 The items of work that is completed and ready for final inspection within thirty 
(30) days after the PMC/PEA’s receipt of notice of termination shall be accepted 
by the Owner at the Contract terms and prices. For the remaining items of works 
the Owner may elect 
 
a) To have any portion completed and delivered at the contract terms and prices 
and/or  
 
b) To cancel the remainder and pay to the PMC/PEA an agreed amount for partially 
completed works.  
 
21.3    TERMINATION FOR INSOLVENCY 
 
21.3.1 The owner may at any time terminate the Contract by giving written notice to the 
PMC/PEA, without compensation to the PMC/PEA, if the PMC/PEA becomes 
bankrupt or otherwise insolvent, provided that such termination will not prejudice 
or affect any right of action or remedy which has accrued or will accrue thereafter 
to the Owner. 
 
21.3.2 Upon termination of the contract at any time for whatever reason by NTPC 
compensation shall be payable to the PMC/PEA for all items of works performed 
satisfactorily until the date of termination. In addition the PMC/PEA will be paid 
for such of those items of work which have been partially completed as conditions 
stipulated under clause 21.2.2. The PMC/PEA shall provide available 
documentary evidence to this effect, acceptable to NTPC.  
 
21.3.3 Following issuance by NTPC of a notice of termination and prior to the effective 
date of such termination, PMC/PEA shall: 
 
i) terminate performance of work in progress under the contract on the date 
and to the extent specified in the notice of termination; 
 
ii) incur no further costs for services except as necessary to complete 
performance of any portion of the work under the contract not terminated by 
the said notice;  
 
iii) terminate all outstanding order, service contracts and contracts to the extent 
that they relate to the performance of work terminated by the notice;  
 
iv) transfer title and deliver to NTPC in the manner, at the times and to the 
extent, if any, as directed by NTPC, all completed or partially completed 
items of works which, if the contract had been continued, would have been 
required to be furnished to NTPC; 
 
 The termination of the contract shall not relieve the PMC/PEA of its 
responsibilities and liabilities as per the contract for the portion of the works 
performed prior to the effective date of termination.  
 
22.0 SIGNING OF AGREEMENT 
 
22.1 The PMC/PEA will prepare a draft contract agreement as per the format to be    
provided by the owner, for its review and approval within twenty eight (28) days 
of issue of letter of Award. Upon approval of the same, the authorized signatory 
of PMC/PEA will be required to sign the contract agreement. The PMC/PEA will 
make and submit at no extra cost to NTPC immediately after signing of it by both 
parties. 
 
23.0 GOVERNING LAWS 
 
23.1 The Contract shall be governed by the Indian Laws from time to time and the 
Delhi Courts alone shall have exclusive jurisdiction. 
 
24.0    SUSPENSION OF THE OBLIGATION 
 
24.1 The obligations stipulated in this specification can only be suspended in the case 
of any particular item of work, in the event of Force Majeure as defined in clause 
25.0 or as the result of an agreement between the parties. 
 
24.2 In the event of Force Majeure, neither of the parties may be considered in default 
of its obligations under the terms of the Specifications. 
 
25.0 FORCE MAJEURE 
 
Force majeure is hereby defined as any cause which is beyond the control of the 
PMC/PEA or NTPC as the case may be which they could not foresee or with a 
reasonable amount of diligence could not have foreseen and which substantially 
affects the performance of contract such as:- 
 
a) Natural Phenomena including but not limited to floods, draughts, 
earthquakes and epidemics. 
 
b) Acts of any government, domestic or foreign, including but not limited to 
war, declared or undeclared, priorities, quarantines, embargoes. 
 
 Provided either party shall within fifteen (15) days from the occurrence of such a 
cause notify the other in writing of such cause.  
 
26.0 LIMITATION OF LIABILITIES 
 
26.1 NTPC shall in no way be responsible for any liabilities arising out of the 
PMC/PEA’s contractual obligation with the PMC/PEA’s personnel, experts, 
engineers, agencies (other than the Contractors engaged by PMC/PEA for 
execution of the Contract), licensors, collaborators. Similarly, the PMC/PEA shall 
in no way be responsible for any liabilities arising out of NTPC’s personnel, 
agency, licensors, collaborators or vendors. 
 
26.2 The PMC/PEA and NTPC both agree that each shall assume full risk of damages 
or injury to its own properties, employees and representatives caused by any act 
or omission to act by their respective employees or representatives, during the 
performance. 
 
27.0 ENFORCEMENT OF TERMS  
 
 The failure of Owner to enforce at any time any of the provisions of this contract 
or any rights in respect thereto or to exercise any option herein provided, shall in 
no way be construed to be a waiver of such provisions, rights or options or in any 
way to affect the validity of the Contract. The exercise by Owner of any of its 
rights hereto shall not preclude or prejudice him from exercising the same or any 
other right it may have under the Contract. 
 
28.0 NOTICE OF DEFAULT 
  
28.1 In the event of any default by either party hereto, in respect of any of its 
obligations and responsibilities under the contract, the party not in default shall 
give notice in writing to the other party calling upon it to rectify such default within 
a period of thirty (30) days of the receipt thereof. Should the party remain in 
default within the said period, the other party shall be entitled to treat it as a 
breach of contract and notice to that effect shall be given forthwith. 
 
29.0    PATENT 
 
29.1 The PMC/PEA shall hold harmless and indemnify the Owner from and against 
loss, damage and expenses arising from any claim for infringement of patent, 
copyright, design and other such rights in existence or to be granted on an 
application published prior  to the completion of this Contract with respect to or 
arising out of the use or supply of design, or any work in accordance with the 
designs, drawings or specifications furnished, approved or recommended by the 
PMC/PEA. 
 
29.2 The PMC/PEA shall promptly notify the Owner in writing if the PMC/PEA has 
acquired knowledge of any patent under which a claim or suit for infringement 
could reasonably be brought because of the use by the owner of any information, 
recommendation or specifications, services rendered by the PMC/PEA. 
 
29.3 The PMC/PEA, in such case, shall forthwith at its own cost make and furnish to 
the owner alternative designs, drawings, specifications or recommendations to 
avoid the same and without putting the owner to additional cost. 
30.0 INSTRUCTION REGARDING EXPENDITURE  
 
The PMC/PEA shall obtain prior approval of Engineer-in-charge before incurring 
any expenditure regarding enabling/infrastructure works such as office 
equipment, procurement/hiring of vehicle, furnishing of office/temporary 
quarters, etc. 
 
31.0       INDEMNITY 
 
The PMC/PEA shall be fully responsible for execution of the works and shall take 
all precautions to prevent loss or damages or to minimize loss or damage to the 
extent possible, and shall be liable to make good any loss or damage incurred 
due to negligence on his part. 
 
The PMC/PEA shall indemnify and keep NTPC indemnified against all losses or 
claims for injuries or damages to any person or any property whatsoever which 
may arise out or in consequence of the execution of any part(s) of the work under 
the contract.  All e xpenses incurred for such insurance etc. shall however be 
excluded from the direct cost. 
 
The PMC/PEA shall at all times indemnify NTPC against all claims, damages or 
compensation under the provisions of Payment of Wages Act 1936.  Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948, Owner’s Liability Act 1938, the Workmen’s Compensation Act 
1923, Industrial Dispute Act 1947 and Maternity Benefit Act 1961 or any statutory 
notifications thereof or any other law relating thereto and rules made from time 
to time there under, or as a consequence of any accident or injury to any 
workman or other persons in or about the work.  
 
PMC/PEA shall include necessary provisions in the bidding documents of 
execution contracts to comply to provisions of Indemnity.  
 
32.0 PROGRESS REPORT 
 
 The PMC/PEA shall prepare and submit to the Engineer -in-Charge monthly 
progress report showing the progress and status of the 'Works being performed 
by him including such materials as charts, networks and photograph (if any) as 
per the directives of the Engineer -In-Charge. Draft formats of progress reports 
shall be finalised in consultation with the Engineer-In - Charge. 
 
 It is understood that submission of such reports and reviews thereof by NTPC 
shall not be deemed to absolve the PMC/PEA of his responsibility of timely 
completion of the assignment as per the time schedule indicated in the Technical 
Specification. 
 
33.0 UNITS & STANDARDS/ CODES/ REGULATIONS 
 
 The International system of Units (SI) will be used for carrying out the services 
mentioned in the specification. Indian S tandards, codes and regulations, 
wherever applicable shall be adopted and adhered to by the PMC/PEA. In case 
of such Indian S tandards/Codes/Regulations being not available in particular 
areas, applicable and acceptable international standards shall be followed.  
 
34.0 ASSOCIATION OF NTPC’s ENGINEERS 
 
34.1 NTPC/Owner may depute their engineer/representative to be present during the 
entire period of this Consultancy assignment/service studies or any part thereof 
and they would be closely associated by the PMC/PEA in all activities relating to 
the assignment for a fruitful interaction. 
 
34.2 The PMC/PEA shall provide all facilities for NTPC/Owner’s engineers/ 
representatives to have fruitful participation in the work. The to and fro travel 
charges and the boarding and lodging charges of NTPC 
engineers/representatives shall be borne by NTPC. 
 
35.0 NO WAIVER 
 
 If the Owner, in any instance, does not insist upon strict performance of any of 
the terms of the assignment, it shall not be construed as a waiver or 
relinquishment in the  future till the assignment is enforced and shall not relieve 
the PMC/PEA of any of its responsibilities under the assignments. 
 
36.0      NTPC DISCRETION  
 
  NTPC Limited does not bind themselves to accept the offer or to give reasons 
for their decision. 
 
37.0 SAFETY MEASURES 
 
 The Employer has formulated Safety Rules for Construction & Erection of Power 
Plants and is enclosed at Annexure -D. These Safety Rules lay down the safety 
requirements for safe execution of project activities, responsibilities of the 
Contractor, and all concerned involved in Construction and Erection. The 
PMC/PEA, including his contractors, while executing the Works, shall strictly 
comply with these Safety rules and statutory requirements (including 
amendments thereof), as applicable, in respect of safety of personnel, equipment 
and materials at site area under execution of the Contractor. Quoted fee shall also 
include cost towards all required safety measures and necessary insurance 
coverages. PMC/PEA shall indemnify and shall keep NTPC indemnified against 
losses and damages, if any, suffered by the persons, deployed by the PMC/PEA 
or his Contractors, due to any cause and/or accident during working at the site. 
 
38.0       FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY 
 
 The Bidder along with its associate/ collaborators/ sub-contractors/ sub-vendors/ 
consultants/ service providers shall strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention Policy
 of 
Employer displayed on its tender website https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ and shall 
immediately apprise Employer about any fraud or suspected fraud as soon as it 
comes to their notice. If in terms of above policy it is established that the bidder/his 
representatives have committed any fraud while competing for this contract the n 
the bid security of the bidder shall be forfeited. 
 
 Bidders shall certify their compliance on “Fraud Prevention Policy" of Employer 
by accepting the following GTE  at the e-Tender Portal:  
 
 
 ““Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding Document?” 
 
 
 Acceptance of General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of the Tender  at e -Tender 
Portal shall be considered as bidder's confirmation that they have read the 
contents of the Fraud Prevention Policy as displayed on tender website at 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ under section ‘policy docs’ and undertake that they 
along with their associate/collaborator/ subcontractors / sub vendors / consultants 
/ service providers shall strictly abide by the provisions of the Fraud Prevention 
Policy. 
 
39.0 AUTHORIZATION FOR ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER 
 
The initial advance payment & payments due on receipt of equipment and 
materials and those for the inland transportation and the erection portion shall be 
made directly to the PMC/PEA by the Owner. Wherever technically feasible, 
these payments shall be made electronically only as per details of Bank Account 
indicated in the contract. The PMC/PEA shall hold the Owner harmless & Owner 
shall not be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage 
sustained by the PMC/PEA on account of any error in the information or change 
in Bank details provided to the Owner in the prescribed form specified at 
Attachment-5 without intimation to Owner duly acknowledged. 
 
40.0 INTEGRITY PACT 
 
Bidders are required to unconditionally accept all conditions of the "Integrity Pact 
(IP)" as per Attachment - 4 of Bidding Documents which has been pre-signed by 
the Employer. 
 
Bidders shall certify their compliance on " Integrity Pact  " by accepting the 
following General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of the Tender at e-Tender Portal: 
 
“Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding Document?” 
 
On Bidder’s acceptance to the above GTE condition, Bidder confirms to have 
read, understood and unconditionally accept & commit to all the contents, terms, 
conditions and undertakings mentioned in the Integrity Pact which has been pre-
signed by the Employer and enclosed with the Bidding Documents. 
 
It may also be noted that subsequent to Employer’s evaluation of Bids, resulting 
into award of Contract to a particular Bidder, the Integrity Pact so submitted shall 
form an integral part of the Contract. 
 
 
 
41.0    INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL MONITORS (IEMs) 
 
 
In respect of this package, the Independent External Monitors (IEMs) would be  
monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of the Integrity Pact Program as 
per the SOP issued by CVC from time to time and available in its website 
https://cvc.gov.in/  
 
The Independent External Monitor(s) (IEMs) as mentioned at NTPC tender 
website(https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under Integrity Pact tab have been 
appointed by NTPC, in terms of Integrity Pact (IP) which forms part of the NTPC 
Tenders/Contracts.  
 
This panel is authorized to examine /consider all references made to it under this 
tender. The bidder(s), in case of any representation/grievance/complaint 
pertaining to this package may raise the issue directly with the IEMs at following 
Address or through e-mail as mentioned in https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ :  
 
 “The IEMs' Secretariat,  
 Contracts Services, 6th Floor, EOC,  
 NTPC Limited, A-8A, Sector-24,  
 Noida-201301 (UP).” 
 
The Independent External Monitors (IEMs) has the right to access without 
restriction to all Project documentations of the Employer including that 
provided by the Contractor. The Contractor will also grant the IEMs, upon his 
request and demonstration of a valid  interest, unrestricted and unconditional 
access to his Project Documentations. The same is applicable to 
Subcontractors. The IEMs are under contractual obligation to treat the 
information and documents of the Bidder/ Contractor/ Sub -Contractors/ JV 
partners/ Consortium member with confidentiality. 
 
The Nodal Officer for necessary coordination with Independent External Monitors 
shall be as under:  
i) Concerned Group Head in CC&M: if the issue pertains to awarding of 
Contract by     CC&M 
ii) Concerned Group Head of C&M under respective CPG of USSC : if the 
issue pertains to awarding of Contract by USSC 
iii) Concerned Head of Department: if the issue pertains to other departments 
iv) Head of Project/ Station : if the issue pertains to post-award execution or 
award of Contract by Project/ Station 
 
42.0       TRAVEL EXPENSES 
  
 All the travel expenses including boarding and lodging, insurance and taxes 
incurred by PMC/PEA for carrying out all the works indicated in the scope of work 
shall be included in the bid price and the Owner shall not bear any liability on this 
account. All the travel expenses including boarding, lodging, taxes and insurance 
of the engineers of NTPC/Owner travelling to PMC/PEA’s office in India shall be 
borne by NTPC/Owner. 
 
43.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
 
Abhishek Kumar Jain / Lekhraj Singh  
AGM (CS)/ Sr. Manager (CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
e-mail: abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in/ lekrajsingh@ntpc.co.in 
Telephone No.: 9650992301, 6202628480 
 
44.0     POLICY FOR DEBARMENT FROM BUSINESS DEALINGS  
 
The Employer has in place a Policy for Debarment from Business dealings 
displayed on the website www.ntpc.co.in/ & www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in. 
Business dealings may be withheld or banned with the Bidder/Contractor on 
account of any of the grounds and following the procedures as detailed in the 
said Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings. 
 
Bidders shall certify their compliance on “Policy for Debarment from Business 
Dealings “ of Employer by accepting the following General Technical Evaluation 
(GTE) of the Tender at e-Tender Portal. 
 
“Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid Doc?” 
 
Acceptance of above GTE shall be considered as bidder's confirmation to the following 
conditions: 
 
(1) Bidder have read the contents of Debarment Policy (version 
mentioned in BDS) displayed on the website www.ntpc.co.in / 
ntpctender.ntpc.co.in and agreed to abide by this policy. 
 
 a) Bidder have not been Banned/Blacklisted as on date of 
submission of bid by Ministry of Power or Deptt. of 
Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. 
 
 b) Bidder have not employed any public servant 
dismissed/removed or person convicted for an offence 
involving corruption or abetment of such offences. 
 
c) Bidder’s Director(s)/ Owner(s)/ Proprietor/ Partner(s) have not been 
convicted by any court of law for offences involving corrupt and 
fraudulent practices including moral turpitude in relation to business 
dealings with Government of India or NTPC or NTPC's  group 
companies during the last five years. 
 
 (2) Bidder further confirms as under: 
 
that if at any point subsequent to award of Contract, the declarations 
given above are found to be incorrect, NTPC Limited/ Employer shall 
have the full right to terminate the Contract and take any action as 
per applicable laws for breach of contract including forfeiture of Bid 
Security/Performance Bank Guarantee. 
 
45.0  “Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a 
land border with India” 
 
45.1 Any Bidder (including its Collaborator/Associate/DJU Partner/JV 
partner/Consortium Member/Assignee, wherever applicable) from a country 
which shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid in this tender only if 
bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in Annexure-E. 
 
 Further, any bidder having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be 
eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority 
as mentioned in Annexure-E. 
 
 (Definition/Requirement of ToT shall be as specified in DOE OM Ref. No. 
F.7/10/2021-PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023, enclosed with Annexure-E) 
 
 Such registration should be valid for the entire period of bid validity or any 
extension thereof. However, in case the validity period of registration is less than 
bid validity period, the Bidder shall be required to submit the extension of the 
validity period of registration before the opening of price bids, failing which the 
bid shall be rejected. 
 
 Further the successful bidder shall not be allowed to sub -contract 
services/works to any “Sub -contractor” from a country which shares a land 
border with India unless such Sub -contractor is registered with the competent 
Authority as mentioned in Annexure-E. 
 
 However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders/sub - 
contractors from those countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to 
which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. Bidders may apprise 
themselves of the updated lists of such countries available in the website of the 
Ministry of External Affairs. 
 
45.2 “Bidder” (including the term 'tenderer', 'consultant' or 'service provider' in certain 
contexts) means any person or firm or company, every artificial juridical person 
not falling in any of the descriptions of bidders stated hereinbefore, including 
any age ncy, branch or office controlled by such person, participating in a 
procurement process  
 
45.3 “Sub-contractor” (including the term ‘Sub -vendor’/Sub-supplier’ in certain 
contexts) means any person or firm or company, every artificial juridical person 
not falling in any of the descriptions of Sub -contractors stated hereinbefore, 
including any agency branch or office controlled by such person, participating in 
a procurement process. 
  
 
45.4 “Bidders from a country which shares a land border with India” / “Subcontractor 
 from a country which shares a land border with India” / “Entity from a country 
which shares a land border with India” mentioned in para 45.1 above means; 
 
 a) An entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or 
 b) A subsidiary of an entity incorporated, established or registered in such a 
country; or 
 c) An entity substantially controlled through entities incorporated, established 
or registered in such a country; or 
 d) An entity whose beneficial owner is situated in such a country; or 
 e) An Indian (or other) agent of such an entity; or 
 f) A natural person who is a citizen of such a country; or 
 g) A consortium or joint venture where any member of the consortium or joint 
venture falls under any of the above. 
 
45.5 The beneficial owner for the purpose of clause “45.4” above will be as under; 
 
 a) In case of company of Limited Liability Partnership, the beneficial owner is 
the natural person(s), who, whether acting alone or together, or through one 
or more juridical person, has a controlling ownership interest or who 
exercises control through other means. 
 
  Explanation- 
 i. “Controlling ownership interest” means ownership of or entitlement 
to more than twenty-five per cent of shares or capital or profits of the 
company; 
 ii. “Control” shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or 
to control the management or policy decisions including by virtue of 
their shareholdings or management rights or shareholders 
agreements or voting agreements; 
 
 b) In case of a partnership firms, the beneficial owner is the natural person(s) 
who, whether acting alone or together, or through one or more judicial 
person, has ownership of entitlement to more than fifteen percent of capital 
or profits of the partnership; 
 c) In case of an unincorporated associations or body of individuals, the 
beneficial owner is the natural person(s) who, whether acting alone or 
together, or through one or more juridical person, has ownership of or 
entitlement to more than fifteen percent  of the property or capital or profits 
of such association or body of individuals; 
 d) Where no natural person is identified under (a) or (b) or (c) above, the 
beneficial owner is the relevant natural person who holds the position of 
senior managing officials; 
 e) In case of a trust, the identifications of beneficial owner(s) shall include 
identification of the author of trust, the trustee, the beneficiaries with fifteen 
percent or more interest in the trust and any other natural person exercising 
ultimate effec tive control over the trust through a chain of control or 
ownership. 
 
45.6 An Agent for the purpose of clause “4 5.4” is a person employed to do any act 
for another, or to represent another in dealings with third person. 
 
 [Note: i. A person who procures and supplies finished goods from an entity from 
a country which shares a land border with India will, regardless of the nature of 
his legal or commercial relationship with the producer of the goods, be deemed 
to be an Agent. 
 
 ii. However, a bidder who only procures raw material, components etc. from an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India and then 
manufactures or converts them into other goods will not be treated as an Agent.] 
45.7 The Contractor shall not be allowed to sub -contract works to any sub - 
contractor/ sub-vendor from a country which shares a land border with India 
unless such sub-contractor is registered with the competent Authority.  
 The Competent Authority for the purpose of registration shall be as mentioned 
in Annexure-E.  
 
 However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to subcontractors 
from those countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the 
Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of 
India is engaged in development projects. The Contractor may apprise itself of 
the updated lists of such countries available in the website of the Ministry of 
External Affairs. 
  Procurement of raw material, components, etc. does not constitute 
subcontracting. 
 
46.0 Bidder shall certify their compliance to Clause “Restrictions on procurement 
from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India” by accepting 
the following General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of the Tender at e-Tender 
Portal: 
 
  “Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding Document?” 
 
 Acceptance of above attribute shall be considered as Bidder's confirmation that 
Bidder has read and understood the Clause regarding “Restrictions on 
procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India” 
and its bid is in compliance to this clause. 
 
 In case it is established that Bidder has provided any false information in 
pursuance of the aforesaid Clause, while competing for this contract, then its 
bid shall be rejected and bid security shall be forfeited. 
 
 In case of a successful bidder, if it is established that the Bidder has not 
complied with terms of aforesaid Clause, during execution of contract, this would 
be considered as fraudulent practices as mentioned in 5.1 (j) of “Policy for 
Debarment from Business Dealings” and shall be dealt accordingly. 
 
47.0 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy 
 
 The Bidder and its employees along with its Associate/ Collaborator/ Sub  
Contractors / Sub -Vendors / Consultants / Service Providers and all other 
persons associated with business of Employer shall strictly adhere to Anti  
Bribery and Anti -Corruption (ABAC) Policy of Employer displayed on tender 
website https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/. 
  
  Bidders shall certify their compliance on “Anti -Bribery and Anti -Corruption 
(ABAC) Policy" of Employer by accepting the following GTE at the e -Tender 
Portal:  
 
 “Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding Document?”  
 
 Acceptance of General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of the Tender at e -Tender 
Portal shall be considered as bidder's confirmation that they and their 
employees along with their associate / collaborator/ subcontractors / sub 
vendors / consultants / service providers shall strictly abide by “Anti-Bribery and 
Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy” of Employer as displayed on tender website at 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ under section ‘policy docs’ and undertake that 
they represent and confirm that they are aware of, understand, and will comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations relating to anticorruption and anti-bribery 
and the ABAC Policy of Employer. 
 
47.1  After award PMC/PEC and its employees along with its Associate/ Collaborator/ 
Sub Contractors / Sub-Vendors / Consultants / Service Providers and all other 
persons associated with NTPC in the performance of Contract shall strictly 
adhere to NTPC’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy displayed on 
website https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ under section ‘policy docs’. The 
PMC/PEA and its employees along with its Associate/ Collaborator/ Sub  
Contractors / Sub -Vendors / Consultants / Service Provid ers and all other 
persons associated with Employer in the performance of Contract shall comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations relating to anti -corruption and anti -
bribery and the ABAC Policy of Employer. 
  
48.0 CONFLICT OF INTEREST  
 
 
48.1 A bidder shall not have conflict of interest with other bidders. Such conflict of 
interest can lead to anti -competitive practices to the detriment of Employer’s 
interests. A bidder may be considered to have a conflict of interest with one or 
more parties in the bidding process, if:  
 
 a) they directly or indirectly control, or are controlled by or are under common 
control of another entity; or  
 b) they have the same legal representative/agent for purposes of their bids; or  
 c) they have relationship with each other, directly or through common third 
party(ies), that puts them in a position to have access to information about or 
influence on the bid of another Bidder; or  
 d) Bidder and/or any of its allied entity(ies), which directly or indirectly control(s) 
or is(are) controlled by or is(are) under common control of another entity, 
has(ve) participated as a consultant in the preparation of the design or technical 
specifications of the contract that is the subject of the tender; or  
 e) Bidder participates in more than one bid in this bidding process.  
 
 For the purposes of this clause the term ‘control’ shall have the following 
meaning:  
 
 “Control” shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control 
the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting 
individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of their 
shareholding or management rights or shareholders’ agreements or voting 
agreements or in any other manner.  
 
 Note: If two or more CPSEs/State PSEs participate in a tender, they will 
not be deemed to fall under the 'Conflict of Interest' provisions solely 
because they are under common control of Government of India / State 
Government. 
 
48.2 Bidders shall certify their compliance to ITB Clause “Conflict of Interest” by 
accepting the following General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of the Tender at 
eTender Portal:  
 
 “Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding Document?”  
 
 Acceptance of above GTE shall be considered as Bidder's confirmation that 
Bidder has read and understood the ITB Clause regarding “Conflict of Interest” 
and its bid is in compliance to this clause. 
 In case it is established that Bidder has provided any false information in 
pursuance of the aforesaid Clause, while competing for this contract, then its 
bid shall be rejected and bid security shall be forfeited. 
 
 In case of a successful bidder, if it is established that the Bidder has not 
complied with terms of aforesaid Clause, during execution of contract, this would 
be considered as fraudulent practices as mentioned in para 5.1 (j) of “Policy for 
Debarment from Business Dealings” and shall be dealt accordingly. 
 
49.0  EVALUATION OF BIDS 
 
49.1  The evaluation shall be carried out in full conformity with  the provisions of the 
Bidding documents/Specifications. 
 
49.2  The comparison shall be of the Project Management fee  (including the Goods 
and Services Tax (GST) ) and Consultancy Fee for DPR & Detailed Engg. 
(including the Goods and Services Tax (GST) ) specified by the  Bidder in the 
BOQ. Subject to fulfilment of all the conditions  mentioned in the 
Specifications/Bidding document, the  Employer will award the Contract to the 
Bidder whose bid has  been determined to be substantially responsive to the  
Specifications /Bidding Documents and whose bid has been  adjudged as the 
lowest evaluated bid price. (lowest sum of Project Management fee.(including 
GST) and  Consultancy Fee for DPR & Detailed Engg.(including GST)). 
 
 Illustrative Method of Evaluation 
  
Sr. 
No. 
Description Equivalent INR 
1 Total fees for Preparation of DPR and 
detailed Engineering (including all taxes, 
duties & levies other than GST there 
upon as applicable on direct transaction 
between PMC/PEA and Owner) as per 
Cl. 5.3 of Terms & Conditions of Contract 
N1 
2. GST on N1 (Sr. No. 1) G1 
3.  Total Project Management fee (including 
all taxes, duties & levies other than GST 
there upon as applicable on direct 
transaction between PMC/PEA and 
Owner), as per Cl. 5.2 of Terms & 
Conditions of Contract. * 
N2 
4. GST on N2 (Sr. No. 3) G2 
 Evaluated Bid Price N1+N2+G1+G2 
  
 *  (To be quoted in percentage(% )of Estimated Direct cost i.e.  INR 24442.21 
Lakhs in the BOQ, for e valuation this quoted percentage shall be converted in 
equivalent INR) 
 
49.3  Bidder may note that deviations, variations and additional conditions etc. found 
anywhere in the bid, shall not  be given effect to in evaluation and it will be 
assumed that the  Bidder complies with all the conditions of Bidding  
Documents/Specifications. In case the Bidder refuses to  withdraw deviations, 
implicit or explicit, found anywhere in the  bid, without any financial implication 
whatsoever to the Employer, the bid shall be rejected and bid security shall be  
forfeited. 
 
49.4  The Employer does not bind itself to accept the lowest evaluated bid with or any 
offer or to give any reasons for its decision. The participating bidders may note 
that the decision  of Employer shall be final and binding on all matters /issues 
arising out the bidding process. 
 
49.5  The Employer reserves the right to accept or reject any bid, and to annul the 
bidding process and reject all bids at an time prior to award of contract, without 
thereby incurring any liability to the affected Bidder or bidders or any obligation 
to inform the affected Bidder or bidders of the grounds for the Employer’s action. 
 
50.0 Declaration regarding insolvency, bankruptcy and Liquidation: 
 
 The Bidder shall not be eligible for bidding, if the Bidder has become the subject 
of proceedings under any bankruptcy or insolvency laws either by way of 
voluntary insolvency initiation or upon a judicial order being passed to that effect, 
thereby admitting the Bidder to Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process 
(CIRP) or Liquidation proceed ings under  Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 or has a receiver appointed over its properties  under any law for the time 
being in force in accordance with the guidelin es of the Reserve  Bank of India 
issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
 
 The aforesaid ineligibility provision owing to the pendency of CIRP, Liquidation, 
appointed receiver shall also be applicable to any Associate, Collaborator, 
Technology Provider or Bidder’s Parent/Holding/Subsidiary company from 
whom the Bidder has taken, or intends to take, technical and/or financial support 
for qualification in the bid. 
 
 In case of a Foreign Company who is participating either as a Bidder or an 
Associate, Collaborator, Technology Provider which is undergoing insolvency, 
bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, as per the extant laws of the respective 
jurisdiction, shall also not be eligible for bidding or associating or collaborating 
or providing Technology or partnership with the Bidder. 
 
 If, at the time of bid submission, any Bidder or its Associate, Collaborator, 
Technology Provider or Bidder’s Parent/Holding/Subsidiary Company, from 
whom the Bidder has taken, or intends to take technical and/or financial support 
for qualification in the bid, was not undergoing CIRP , Liquidation, Bankruptcy 
or similar proceedings but subsequently during the period of evaluation of bids, 
including but not limited to technical, commercial and financial evaluation, or any 
time before the work is awarded, any such application is admitted by the 
Adjudicating Authority under the IBC, 2016 or any similar proceedings have 
started by any Judicial / Quasi-Judicial Body, the Bidder shall, with immediate 
effect, be considered as ineligible and his bid shall be rejected forthwith. 
 An undertaking as per enclosed Proforma (Attachment -6) to the effect that the 
Bidder or its Associate, Collaborator, Technology Provider or Bidder’s 
Parent/Holding/Subsidiary Company, from whom the Bidder has taken, or 
intends to take, technical and/or financial support for qualification in the bid, is 
not undergoing any Insolvency, Liquidation or Bankruptcy proceedings, shall be 
submitted by the Bidder along with its Techno Commercial bid on the letter head 
of the Bidder duly signed by the authorized representative of the Bidder. Further, 
any Foreign Company which is acting as an Associate, Collaborator or 
Technology Provider, shall also submit an undertaking along with the Techno -
Commercial bid of the Bidder that they are not undergoing insolvency, 
bankruptcy or liquidation as per the relevant laws of their respective jurisdiction. 
 
 Further, the Bidder, from the submission of bid until the award of work, shall 
immediately inform the Employer of any proceedings / admission / orders 
passed for admitting the Bidder or any of its Associate, Collaborator or 
Technology Provider or Bidder’s Parent/Holding/Subsidiary Company (from 
whom the Bidder has taken or intends to take technical and/ or financial support 
for qualification of bid) to CIRP by the Adjudicating Authority under IBC, 2016 or 
any similar proceedings under other applicable laws (in cases where IBC, 2016 
is not applicable). 
 
 Any suppression of such material facts or false declaration shall immediately 
render the Bidder liable for rejection of his bid, forfeiture of bid security/EMD and 
banning of business dealing as per terms and conditions of the Policy & 
Procedure for Debar ment from Business Dealings. In case of non -submission 
of the Attachment / Declaration with authorized seal and signature, the bid shall 
not be entertained. 
 
51.0      Advance Payment Security 
 
51.1 If the Contractor/PMC/PEA wishes to take advance payment as mentioned in the 
Clause 8.1 a), and 8.1 c) , it shall , within twenty -eight (28) days of the 
Notification/Letter of Award of Contract, provide a security in an amount equal to 
the advance payment calculated in accordance with Terms of Payment, and in 
the currency or currencies of the Contract, with an initial validity of up to  ninety 
(90) days beyond the schedule date of Completion of the last  facility covered 
under the package. However, in case of delay in completion of the facilities under 
the package, the validity of this security shall be extended by the period of such 
delay. The advance payment security shall also cover the amount of GST as 
applicable on the advance payment to be paid to the contractor. 
 
51.2 The security shall be in the form of an unconditional bank guarantee as per the 
proforma provided in – Annexure-A. The Advance payment Security shall be 
reduced pro-rata every three (3) months after First Bill/Stage Payment under the 
Contract based on the work completed  and applicable GST. The cumulative 
amount of reduction at any point of time shall not exceed ninety (90%) of the 
advance and the amount of GST paid on the advance amount . It should be 
clearly understood that reduction in the value of security for advance shall not in 
any way dilute the Contractor's responsibility and liabilities under the Contract 
including in respect of the Facilities for which the reduction in the value of security 
is allowed. 
 
51.3 The Bank Guarantees submitted towards Advance Payment Security, shall be 
from any of the Banks listed at Annexure-A1. 
 
51.4 Advance BG will be mandatorily submitted in the form of e -BG, and no 
physical BG will be accepted. 
 
51.5 Advance Bank Guarantees/should be enforceable for minimum ninety (90 days) 
after expiry of its validity. 
 
 
 
 
   
ATTACHMENT-1 
PAGE 1 OF 1 
 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE and 
S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
For  
 
Singrauli STPP-III  
 
 
 
Bidding Document No.: CS-1150-350A-9 
 
 
 
BIDDER TO SUBMIT BID SECURITY OF REQUIRED AMOUNT AND VALIDITY AS 
PER CLAUSE NO. 2.0 OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT-2 
PAGE 1 OF 1 
 
 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE and 
S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
For  
 
Singrauli STPP-III  
 
Bidding Document No.: CS-1150-350A-9 
 
 
BIDDER TO SUBMIT POWER OF ATTORNEY AUTHORISING THE SIGNATORY TO 
SIGN THE BIDS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT – 3  
Page 1 of 1 
Package Name  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. ************** 
(ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER FORM) 
 
 
Bidder’s Name and Address:  
 
To, 
  NTPC Limited, Contract Services  
 
Dear Sirs, 
We, hereby authorize the Employer to make all our payments through Electronic  Fund Transfer System. The details for 
facilitating the payments are given  below: 
(TO BE FILLED IN CAPITAL LETTERS)  
1. NAME OF THE BENEFICIARY:                                                                                                                               
2. ADDRESS:                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                              
3. TELEPHONE NO. (WITH STD CODE):                                                                                                                    
4. BANK PARTICULARS  
A. Bank Name:                                                                                                                                                                 
B. Bank Telephone NO. (with STD Code):                                                                                                                    
C. Branch Address:                                                                                                                                                        
D. Branch Code:                                                                                                                                                              
E. 9 Digit MICR Code of the Bank Branch (Enclose copy of a cancelled cheque):                                                   
F. IFSC CODE:                                                                                                                                                                 
G. BANK ACCOUNT NUMBER:                                                                                                                                      
H. BANK ACCOUNT TYPE 
(TICK ONE): 
      
IF OTHERS, SPECIFY:                              
5.  Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Enclose Copy):                                                                                                
6. E-mail address for intimation regarding release  of payments:                                                                         
 
I/We hereby declare that the particulars given above are correct and complete. If the transaction is delayed or credit is not  
affected at all for reasons of incomplete or incorrect information,  I/We would not hold the Employer responsible. We have 
enclosed document as mentioned at Sl. No. 4(E) and 5 above. 
 
DATE:   
SIGNATURE: 
                                                                                                                           (AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
         Name: 
 
         Official Stamp:  
BANK CERTIFICATION: 
It is certified that above mentioned beneficiary holds a bank account no. ................. .... ............ with our branch  and the Bank 
particulars mentioned above are correct. 
 
DATE:   
SIGNATURE:  
(AUTHORISED SIGNATORY)   
 Authorization No.: 
Name:   
                                                                                                                                         
Official Stamp: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAVING CURRENT LOAN CASH 
CREDIT 
OTHERS 
ATTACHMENT – 4 
 
INTEGRITY PACT 
 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE and 
S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
Package For  
 
Singrauli STPP-III  
 
Bidding Document No.: CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Between 
NTPC Ltd., a Govt. of India Enterprise  
(hereinafter referred to as "The Employer")  
and 
.............................. 
 (hereinafter referred to as "The Bidder/Contractor")   
And 
..............................   
(hereinafter referred to as "JV  Partner/  Consortium 
Member(s)" (if applicable)) 
 
Preamble 
 
The Employer invites the bids from all eligible bidders and intends to enter into  Contract for 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE and S&T for 
Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) with the successful bidder(s), as  per organizational 
systems and procedures. The Employer values full compliance with all relevant laws and 
regulations, and the principles of economical use of resources, and of fairness and transparency in 
its relations with its Bidder(s) and/or Contractor(s).  
 
This Integrity Pact is an agreement between the Employer and the  bidder/Contractor/JV  
Partners/Consortium  members, committing the persons/officials  of the Parties not to resort to any 
corrupt practices in any aspect/stage of contract. 
 
In order to achieve these goals, the Employer will appoint Independent External Monitor(s)  
(IEM),  who  will  monitor  the   processes  as  stipulated  in  the  SOP  for 
implementation of Integrity Pact issued by eve from time to time 
Section 1 Commitments of the Employer 
 
1. The Employer Commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to 
observe the following principles in this regard:- 
 
a) No employee of the Employer, either in person or through family members 
including relatives, will in connection with the bidding for or the execution of a 
Contract, demand or accept a promise for or accept for him/herself or for a third 
person, any material or immaterial benefit to which he/she is not 
legally entitledto. 
 
b} The Employer shall, during the bidding process treat all Bidders with equity and 
reason. The Employer will, in particular, before and during the bidding process, 
provide to all Bidders the same information  and will not provide to any Bidder 
confidential/additional information through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an 
advantage in relation to the bidding process or the Contract execution. 
c)      The Employer will exclude from the process all known prejudiced persons. 
 
2. If the Employer obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which  is 
a criminal offence under the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) I The Prevention of 
Corruption Act (P C Act) or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the 
Employer will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer.  
 
Section 2 Commitments and Undertakings by the Bidder/Contractor 
 
1. The Bidder/Contractor  commits and undertakes to take all measures necessary to prevent 
malpractices & corruption. He commits himself to observe the following principles 
during his participation in the bidding process and during the execution of the contract: 
 
a) The Bidder/ Contractor undertakes not to, directly or through any other person 
or firm offer, promise or give or influence to any employee of the Employer 
associated with the bidding process or the execution of  the contract or to any 
third person on their behalf any material or immaterial benefit which he/she is 
not legally entitled, in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind 
whatsoever during the bidding process or during the execution of the contract. 
 
b) The Bidder/ Contractor undertake not to enter into any undisclosed agreement or 
understanding, whether formal or informal with other Bidders. This applies in 
particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission 
or non -submission of bids or any other action to restrict competitiveness or to 
introduce cartelization in the bidding process. 
 
c) The Bidder/Contractor undertakes not to commit any offence under  the relevant 
Anti-corruption Laws of India; furtherthe Bidder/Contractor  will not  use 
improperly, any information or document provided by the Employer as part of the 
business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details, 
including information contained or  transmitted electronically for purposes of 
competition or personal gain and will  not pass the information so acquired on to  
others. 
 
d) The Bidder/ Contractor, when presenting his bid, undertakes to disclose any and 
all payments made, or is committed to or intends to make  to agents, brokers 
or any other intermediaries in connection with the bidding process and I or award 
of the contract. 
 
e) The Foreign Bidder/ Contractor, when presenting his bid, undertakes to 
disclose the name and address of agents and representative in India. Further, 
Indian Bidder/ Contractor when presenting his bid, undertakes to disclose the 
name and address of its foreign principals or associates. 
 
2. The Bidder/ Contractor will not instigate and allure third persons/parties to commit 
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such  offences. 
 
 
Section 3 
Contracts 
 
1. 
Disqualification from Bidding Process and Exclusion from Future 
 
 
If the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s), before award or during execution has committed  a 
transgression through a violation of any provisions of Section 2 so as to put  his reliability 
or credibility as  Bidder  into  question,  the  Employer  shall be entitled to disqualify the 
Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) from the bidding process or to  terminate the contract,  if  signed 
on that ground. 
2. If the Bidder/ Contractor has committed a transgression  through  a violation  of Section 2 such as 
to put his reliability or credibility into question, the Employer shall be entitled to exclude 
including debarring the Bidder/ Contractor for anyfuture  tenders/contract  award  process. 
The  imposition and duration of the   exclusion will   be  determined  by  the  severity  of  
the  transgression.  The  severity  will  be determined   by   the   Employer   taking   into   
consideration   the   full   facts   and circumstances    of  each   case  particularly  taking  into  
account  the  number  of transgressions, the position of the transgressors within the company 
hierarchy of the Bidder and the amount of  the damage. The exclusion will be imposed for a 
period not exceeding two (02)years. 
 
3. A transgression is considered to have occurred if the Employer after  due consideration of 
the available evidence concludes that no reasonable doubt  is possible. 
 
4. The Bidder with its free consent and without any influence agrees  and undertakes to 
respect and uphold the Employer's absolute rights to resort to  and impose such exclusion 
and further accepts and undertakes not to challenge  or question such exclusion on any 
ground, including the lack of any hearing  before the decision to resort to such exclusion 
is taken. This undertaking is given freely and after obtaining independent legal advice. 
 
5. Subject to full satisfaction of the Employer, the exclusion of Bidder/ Contractor could 
be revoked by the Employer if  the Bidder/  Contractor  can prove that he has restored/ 
recouped the damage caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention 
system in his organization. 
 
Section 4 Compensation for Damages including Forfeiture of Earnest  Money Deposit/ 
Security Deposit/ Performance & Advance Bank Guarantees 
 
1. If the Employer has disqualified the Bidder/ Contractor from the bidding  process or has 
terminated the contract pursuant to Section 3, the Employer shall  forfeit the Earnest 
Money Deposit/Bid Security, encash Contract Performance  Bank Guarantees in addition 
to excluding the bidder from the future award process and terminating the  contract. 
 
2. In addition to 1 above, the Employer shall be entitled to take recourse  to  the relevant 
provisions of the contract related to Termination of Contract due to Contractor's Default. 
 
Section 5 
1. 
Previous Transgressions 
The Bidder swears on oath that no previous transgression impinging on  anti­ corruption 
principles I any malpractice as mentioned in Section -2 has occurred in the last three years 
reckoned from the date of bid submission in any other Public/Government  organization. 
The date of such transgression  would be the date on which cognizance of the said 
transgression was taken by competent authority. The transgression(s),  for which 
cognizance was taken even before the said period of three years, but are pending 
conclusion, shall also be considered to fall  within last three years. 
 
2. If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on previous transgression as  mentioned above in para 
1, Bidder can be disqualified from the bidding process or  the contract, if already awarded, 
can be terminated on this ground. 
 
Section 6 Company Code of  Conduct 
 
Bidders are also advised to have a company code of conduct (clearly rejecting the use of 
bribes and other unethical behaviour ) and a compliance program for   the 
implementation  of the code of conduct throughout the company. 
 
Section 7 Independent  External Monitors (IEM) 
 
1. The Employer will appoint competent and credible Independent External  Monitor for this 
Pact. The task of the IEMs is to review independently and  objectively, whether and to 
what extent the parties comply with the obligations under  this agreement. 
 
2. The IEMs are not subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties  and perform 
his functions neutrally and independently. He shall report to CMD of  the Employer, or a 
person authorized by  him. 
 
3. The roles & responsibilities of the IEM shall be as per the SOPs issued by CVC from 
time to time and available in its website "https://cvc.gov. in/. 
 
4. As soon as the IEMs notices, or believes to notice, a violation of this  agreement, he will 
so inform the Management of the Employer (CMD of the Employer or a person authorized 
by him) and request to discontinue or to take  corrective action, or to take other relevant 
action. The IEMs can in this regard submit  non­ binding recommendations.  Beyond this, 
the IEMs has no right to demand from the parties that they act in a specific manner, refrain 
from action or tolerate  action. However, Independent External Monitor shall give an 
opportunity to the bidder/contractor to present its case before making its recommendations 
to the Employer. 
 
5. The IEMs will submit a written report to CMD of the Employer or a  person authorized by 
him within 30 days from the date of reference or intimation to  him by the Employer and, 
should the occasion arise, submit proposals for  correcting problematic situations. 
 
6. The Bidder I Contractor accepts that they shall not approach courts while the matter I 
complaint I dispute has been referred to the IEM in terms of this  pact and they shall 
await IEM's decision before approaching any Court. 
 
7. The word " IEM" will include Singular or Plural. 
 
Section 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 9 
Pact Duration 
 
This Pact comes into force from the date of signing by all the parties. It shall expire for the 
Contractor 12 months after the final payment under the  respective Contract, and for all 
other unsuccessful bidders 6 months after the Contract  has been awarded. 
 
Miscellaneous  Provisions 
 
1. This Pact is subject to Indian Law. The place of performance and jurisdiction  shall be New 
Delhi. 
 
2. Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of this 
Pact remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to  an agreement to their 
original intentions. 
 
3. The actions stipulated in this Integrity Pact are without prejudice to any other legal action 
that may follow in accordance with the provisions of the extant law in force relating 
to any civil or criminal proceedings. 
Project: Singrauli Super Thermal Power           
Project, Stage-III (2X800MW) 
Bidding Document No.:  CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Terms & Conditions of Contract for  
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 
4.  If the Contractor is a JV partnership I Consortium, this agreement must be signed by all the partners  
of JV I Consortium Partners as the case may be. 
The Parties hereby sign this Integrity Pact at ..........on this  ....... day  of .......................  20.... 
Employer Bidder/ Contractor Joint Venture  Partner(s)/ Consortium 
member(s) (As Applicable) 
 
Witness Witness Witness 
1. 
2.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Project: Singrauli Super Thermal Power           
Project, Stage-III (2X800MW) 
Bidding Document No.:  CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Terms & Conditions of Contract for  
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 
Attachment-5 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE and S&T for 
Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
For  
 
Singrauli STPP-III  
 
 
 
Bidding Document No.: CS-1150-350A-9 
(Site Visit Certificate) 
 
 
Bidder’s Name and Address: To 
NTPC Limited, (CS) 
6th Floor, Engineering  Office Complex, 
Plot A -8A, Sector 24, Noida -201301, 
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, State of 
U.P., India 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
With reference to the subject package and as per Clause 2.1.3.1.2 (c) of “Terms of 
conditions” regarding site visit by bidder, we confirm that we have visited and examined the  
Singrauli Super Thermal Power Project , site and its surroundings where the work to be 
executed for the subject package, on the date mentioned below:   
 
Date : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Bidder) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signature) ……………………….. 
 
(Printed Name) …………………… 
 
(Designation)   …………………….. 
 
(Common Seal)   …………………… 
 
(NTPC Official) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signature) ……………………….. 
 
(Printed Name) …………………… 
 
(Designation)   …………………….. 
 
(Common Seal)   …………………… 
 
Project: Singrauli Super Thermal Power           
Project, Stage-III (2X800MW) 
Bidding Document No.:  CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Terms & Conditions of Contract for  
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 
 
Attachment-6 
 
(i)  Format for declaration by the Domestic Bidder "Self-Declaration by the Bidder'' 
 
I/ We, M/s ………………(Name of Bidder)…………………. hereby certify that no proceedings 
for insolvency or liquidation under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, or any other 
bankruptcy proceedings under any other applicable laws (in cases where IBC, 2016 is not 
applicable) have been admitted or is pending against us and/or our Parent/Holding/Subsidiary 
Company, Associate or Collaborator or Technology Provider………………………… (Name of 
Parent/ Holding/ Subsidiary Company, Associate or Collaborator/ Technology provider 
company)………………………… from whom we have taken or intend to take technical and/ or 
financial support for qualification of bid. 
 
It is understood that if any part of this declaration is found to be false, the Employer 
shall have the right to unconditionally, immediately and outrightly reject my/our bid and 
forfeit the Bid Security/ EMD. 
 
Further, in case the bid has already culminated into a Contract, the Employer shall be 
entitled to terminate the Contract, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies 
available to the Employer. 
 
 
 
(Seal & Signature of Bidder) 
 
Note: 1. This 'Declaration' should be on the letterhead of Bidder 
2. T he declaration shall be submitted separately as per 3L(ii) by the 
Parent/Holding/ Subsidiary Company, Associate, Collaborator and 
Technology provider from whom the Bidder has taken or intends to take 
technical and/or financial support for qualification of bid. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project: Singrauli Super Thermal Power           
Project, Stage-III (2X800MW) 
Bidding Document No.:  CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Terms & Conditions of Contract for  
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 
 
Attachment-6  
 
(if applicable) 
 
(ii) Format of declaration by Parent/Holding/Subsidiary Company, Associate or 
Collaborator/ Technology Provider from whom the Bidder has taken or intends to take 
technical and/ or financial support for qualification of bid 
 
"Self-declaration by the Parent/Holding/Subsidiary Company, Associate or Collaborator/ 
Technology Provider" 
 
I/ We, M/s ……………………..(Name of Parent/Holding/Subsidiary Company, Associate or 
Collaborator/ Technology Provider)…………………….. from whom the Bidder has taken or 
intends to take technical and/ or financial support for qualification of bid, hereby certify that no 
proceedings for insolvency or liquidation under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, or 
any other bankruptcy proceedings under any other applicable laws (in cases where IBC, 2016 
is not applicable) have been admitted or is pending against us. 
 
It is understood that if any part of this declaration is found to be false, the Employer shall have 
the right to unconditionally, immediately and outrightly reject the bid and forfeit the Bid 
Security/ EMD. 
 
Further, in case the bid has already culminated into a Contract, the Employer shall be entitled 
to terminate the Contract, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the 
Employer. 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
(Seal & Signature of Parent/Holding/ 
Subsidiary Company, Associate or 
Collaborator, Technology provider) 
 
 
Note: 1. The 'Declaration' shall be on the letterhead of Parent/Holding/Subsidiary 
Company, Associate or Collaborator/ Technology Provider 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project: Singrauli Super Thermal Power           
Project, Stage-III (2X800MW) 
Bidding Document No.:  CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Terms & Conditions of Contract for  
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 
 
Schedule-1 
Page 1 of 1 
 
 
 
 
 
DELETED 
Project: Singrauli Super Thermal Power           
Project, Stage-III (2X800MW) 
Bidding Document No.:  CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Terms & Conditions of Contract for  
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 
                          Schedule-2 
  Page 1 of 2 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE and S&T for 
Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
For  
 
Singrauli STPP-III  
 
 
 
Bidding Document No.: CS-1150-350A-9 
 
(WORK SCHEDULE) 
Bidder's Name and Address:      To 
Contract Services, 
EOC, NTPC Limited, 
Noida - 201301 
Dear Sirs, 
We declare that the total scope of work for DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding 
Works including OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage -III (2x800MW) For Singrauli 
STPP-III located at Shaktinagar, District Sonebhadra, Uttar Pradesh, 231222 in accordance with 
the provisions of the bidding documents shall be executed as per the following Work Schedule: 
A) WORK SCHEDULE for DPR and Detailed Engineering 
 
Sl. 
No. Activity From LOA date 
(in Months) 
1 Submission of draft DPR & ESP to NTPC for comments/ 
acceptance before submission to  Railways 02 
 
2 
Submission of Survey Report and Land  Plans, Finalization 
of DPR & ESP and Submission to Railways/ NTPC (as 
applicable) for   approval/acceptance 
 
02-03 
3 Submission of Final DPR to NTPC including Plans and 
applicable  approvals  from Railways 04-06 
4 Submission of Technical specification, tender drawings, 
BOQ, detailed cost estimates etc. to  NTPC 06-08 
 
 
5 
Obtaining Railways, State/Central Govt. Dept. and other 
agencies approvals of detailed design & drawings for all 
Civil, S&T, OHE and general electrical works viz. Rail track 
structure, bridges & culverts (including  proof check from 
IIT), control buildings etc. as   applicable 
 
 
08-11 
6 Submission of construction drawings to   NTPC 11-12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project: Singrauli Super Thermal Power           
Project, Stage-III (2X800MW) 
Bidding Document No.:  CS-1150-350A-9 
 
Terms & Conditions of Contract for  
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including 
OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 
 
Schedule-2 
  Page 2 of 2 
B) WORK SCHEDULE for PMC 
 
Sl. No. 
 
Activity 
From the date of LOA 
Start 
(In 
Months) 
Finish 
(In Months) 
1.0 Finalization 
package list 
of execution strategy and contract 08 10 
2.0 Tendering and award of MGR & Railway Siding 
Packages (Earth work, Rail procurement, Formation 
work,  rail  laying,  Electrical  and  S&T  Works, Bridges 
& culverts, Misc. Buildings  etc. 
10 14 
3.0 Construction of MGR & Railway Siding civil works 
(Earthwork, Rail laying, Formation & P-way works, 
Bridges & Culverts and interconnection   etc.) 
12 24 
4.0 Construction  of  Miscellaneous Buildings 14 24 
5.0 Tendering & Award of MGR/Railway siding Package 
for OHE, Electrical and S&T  Works 
14 18 
6.0 Execution of MGR/Railway siding Package Electrical, 
OHE and S&T Works 
16 28 
7.0 Dry Engine Run  29 
8.0 Completion of all  facilities  30 
 
 
Remarks: 
• Packages including priority stream shall be identified in consultation with NTPC Singrauli 
& NTPC -Engineering, so that the construction fronts are made available to the 
prospective executing agencies & project requirement is met.  
• The NIT for Earthwork Package, Bridges & Culverts and NIT for Rail Procurement; Rail 
Laying work; Electrical, S&T works and Serving Station shall be done in parallel so that 
the works are awarded & execution starts in parallel. 
 
 
 
Yours Faithfully, 
 
Date:  Printed Name…………….. 
Place:                                               Designation………………. 
 
Annexure-A


Annexure-AI 
SUBMISSION OF BANK GUARANTEE
UPDATED SCHEDULED COMMERCIAL BANK LIST
A SCHEDULED PUBLIC SECTOR BANKS
1 Bank of Baroda
2 Bank of India
3 Bank of Maharashtra
4 Canara Bank
5 Central Bank of India
6 Indian Overseas Bank
7 Indian Bank
8 Punjab National Bank
9 Punjab & Sind Bank
10 State Bank of India
11 UCO Bank
12 Union Bank of India
B SCHEDULED PRIVATE BANKS (INDIAN BANKS)
1 Axis Bank Limited
2 Bandhan Bank Limited
3 CSB Bank Limited
4 City Union Bank Limited
5 DCB Bank Limited
6 Dhanlaxmi Bank Limited
7 Federal Bank Limited
8 HDFC Bank Limited
9 ICICI Bank Limited
10 IndusInd Bank Limited
11 IDFC FIRST Bank Limited
12 Jammu & Kashmir Bank Limited
13 Karnataka Bank Limited
14 Karur Vysya Bank Limited
15 Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
16 Nainital Bank Limited
17 RBL Bank Limited
18 South Indian Bank Limited
19 Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Limited
20 Yes Bank Limited
21 IDBI Bank Limited
C SCHEDULED FOREIGN BANKS
1 AB Bank PLC
2 American Express Banking Corporation
3 Australia & Newzealand Banking Group Limited
4 Barclays Bank Plc
5 Bank of America
6 Bank of Bahrain & Kuwait B.S.C.
7 Bank of Ceylon
Page 1 of 2
8 Bank of China Limited
9 Bank of Nova Scotia
10 BNP Paribas
11 Citi Bank NA
12 Cooperatieve Rabobank U.A./ Coöperatieve Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A.
13 Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank
14 CTBC Bank Co Ltd
15 DBS Bank India Limited (Subsidiary of DBS Bank Ltd.)
16 Deutsche Bank A.G.
17 Doha Bank Q.P.S.C
18 Emirates NBD Bank P.J.S.C.
19 First Abu Dhabi Bank PJSC
20 FirstRand Bank Ltd
21 Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
22 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
23 Industrial Bank of Korea
24 J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
25 JSC VTB Bank
26 KEB Hana Bank
27 Kookmin Bank
28 Mashreqbank P.S.C.
29 Mizuho Bank Ltd
30 MUFG Bank, Ltd
31 NatWest Markets Plc
32 NongHyup Bank
33 PT Bank Maybank Indonesia TBK
34 Qatar National Bank (Q.P.S.C.)
35 Sberbank
36  SBM Bank (India) Limited (Subsidiary of SBM Group)
37 Shinhan Bank
38  Societe Generale 
39 Sonali Bank PLC
40 Standard Chartered Bank
41 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
42 United Overseas Bank Ltd
43 UBS AG
44 Woori Bank
D SMALL FINANCE BANKS
1 AU Small Finance Bank Limited
2 Capital Small Finance Bank Limited
3  Equitas Small Finance Bank Limited
4 ESAF Small Finance Bank Limited
5 Suryoday Small Finance Bank Limited
6 Ujjivan Small Finance Bank Limited
7  Utkarsh Small Finance Bank Limited
8  North East Small Finance Bank Limited
9 Jana Small finance Bank Limited
10  Shivalik Small Finance Bank Limited
11 Unity Small Finance Bank Limited,
Page 2 of 2
Page 3 of 4
Page 4 of 4
SI. No. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
Aooex:ure-A2 
CHECKLIST 
{C&M coordinator to modify the format appropriately, for RE projects where Payment 
on Order instrument (POI) I Letter of Undertaking (LOU), issued by Indian Renewable 
Energy Development Agency (IREDA)/ Power Finance Corporation Limited (PFC)/ 
REC Limited (REC), are acceptable as Guarantees) 
Details of checks YES/NO 
Is the BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND on non-judicial stamp 
paper/e-stamp paper of appropriate value, as per Stamp Act? 
Whether date, purpose of purchase and name of the purchaser 
are indicated on the stamp paper? (The date of purchase of 
stamp paper should be of any date on or before the date of 
execution of BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND and the stamp 
paper should be purchased either in the name of the executing 
Bank/Insurance Company or the party on whose behalf the 
BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND has been issued. The stamp 
papers (other than e-stamp paper) should be duly signed by the 
stamp vendor.) 
In case of BG/INSURANCE SURETY BONDs from 
Bank/Insurance Company abroad, has the BG/INSURANCE 
SURETY BOND been executed on Letter Head of the 
Bank/Insurance Company? 
Has the executing Officer of BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND 
indicated his name, designation and Power of Attorney No./ 
Signing Power no. etc., on the BG/INSURANCE SURETY 
BOND? 
Is each page of BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND duly signed 
/initialed by executant and whether stamp of Bank/Insurance 
Company is affixed thereon? Whether the last page is signed with 
full particulars under seal of Bank/Insurance Company as 
required in the prescribed proforma? 
Does the Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond compare 
verbatim with the Proforma prescribed in the Bid Documents? 
Are the factual details such as Bidding Document 
No./Specification No., Amount of BG/INSURANCE SURETY 
BOND and Validity of BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND correctly 
mentioned in the BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND? 
Whether overwriting/cutting if any on the BG/INSURANCE 
SURETY BOND have been properly authenticated under 
signature & seal of executant? 
Whether the BG/INSURANCE SURETY BOND has been issued 
by a Bank/Insurance Company in line with the provisions of 
Bidding documents? 

Annexure-A3 
    Page 1 of 2 
Determination of Project Management Consultancy (PMC/PEA) Fee for Balance 
Work Beyond Contractual Completion Schedule 
For any delays attributable to NTPC in execution of contract, Project Management 
Consultancy/Project Executing Agency (PMC/PEA) Fee for the balance work beyond the 
end of contractual completion schedule shall be subject to adjustment as per the formula 
given below: 
PMC/PEA1 = PMC/PEA0 (F+ l x L1 / L0), 
ΔPMC/PEA = PMC/PEA1 - PMC/PEA0 
where 
F = Fixed Component of Project Management Consultancy Fee = 0.25 
l =   Manday Component of Project Management Consultancy Fee = 0.75 
PMC/PEA0 = Project Management fee for the month of billing in which actual work is 
executed, which shall be calculated as under: 
For the  purpose of computing PMC/PEA0, each bill for Project  management fees 
(excluding Initial Advance and Retention Money) during the extended period shall be 
divided by a factor given below: 
{Project Management Fee-(Initial Advance+ Retention Money payable on the expiry of 30 
months after completion of works at site in all respects)} / Project Management Fee 
L1=All India Average Consumer Price Index for Industrial workers (Base 2016=100) 
(published by RBI, Govt. of India) as applicable for the month of billing in which actual 
work is executed. 
L0= All India Average Consumer Price Index for Industrial workers (Base 2016=100) 
(published by RBI, Govt. of India) as  applicable for the last month of contractual 
completion schedule.  
PMC/PEA1=Adjusted Project Management Fee payable for each monthly billing in which 
actual work is executed, 
ΔPMC/PEA = Adjustment in Project Management Fee payable for each monthly billing, 
The Price Adjustment amount (ΔPMC/PEA) for each billing month so calculated shall be 
payable/recoverable after making 10% deduction towards Retention Money (i.e. 90% of 
ΔPMC/PEA). 
Annexure-A3 
    Page 2 of 2 
Illustrative Example for the Price Adjustment of Project Management 
Consultancy/Project Executing Agency (PMC/PEA) Fee 
ΔPMC/PEA = PMC/PEA1 - PMC/PEA0 
PMC/PEA1 = PMC/PEA0 (F + l*L1/L0),  
Suppose th e Contractual completion period is Dec’22 and 100 % Project Management 
fees for the billing month in which actual work is execute d i.e. Jan’23 is Rs. 1 Lakh, out 
of which Rs. 10,000/- has been paid as Initial Advance and Rs. 10,000/- has been retained 
towards Retention Money. Accordingly, Rs. 80,000/- (= {1,00,000-(10,000+10,000)}) is 
the billing amount for the month of Jan’23. 
Therefore, PMC/PEA0 = 80000/ {(100000-10000-10000)/100000} =Rs. 1,00,000/- 
Labour Index taken is All-India Average Consumer Price Index Numbers for Industrial 
Workers  
(Base 2016=100) 
Say, L0=133 (for Dec’22), L1=134 (for Jan’23); 
PMC/PEA1=Adjusted PMC/PEA for the month of Jan’23= 100000*(0.25+0.75*134/133); 
= 100000 (0.25+0.755639) = Rs. 1,00,564/- (round off) 
Adjustment in Project Management Fee payable for the month of Jan’23; 
i) ΔPMC/PEA = PMC/PEA 1 - PMC/PEA0
= 100564-100000= Rs. 564/-
ii) 90% of ΔPMC/PEA shall be payable for the month of Jan’23 (pending adjustment
towards Retention Money)
iii) 90% of ΔPMC/PEA = 90% of Rs. 564= Rs. 528/- (round off).
Sl No. MGR SIDING Connectivity to MGR 
from Silo 3 Total Cost (In Lacs)
I
1
925.11 805.95 135.34 1866.39
309.45 283.94 63.25 656.64
1688.13 1785.17 375.36 3848.65
2761.30 4069.64 4139.504 10970.44
1533.70 217.76 1751.46
21.46 9.96 31.41
50 50 50 150.00
7289.14 7222.41 4763.44 19275.00
2 595.62 595.62
3 3947.51 3947.51
4 242.72 242.72
5 381.37 381.37
24442.21
Cost Estimate  for DPR, DE & PMC for MGR & Railway Siding Works incl OHE and Signalling & Telecommunication Works- Singrauli St-III
Description
Cost Estimate of Work
 Civil Engineering
Overhead Electification Works
Formation works
Ballast
Permanent Way Works
Bridges
Building & Drains
Dismantling
Miscellaneous
Tools & Plants
Signal & Telecommunication
 General Electrification
Sub-Total (I)
Total (I)
Attachment - A4
Annexure-A5 
    Page 1 of 1 
DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE 
and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW)
For
Singrauli STPP-III 
Bidding Document No.: CS-1150-350A-9
Detailed Procedure for deriving PMC fee on account of Scope Change/qty 
variation for bridges and Sheds & Buildings 
i) In case of increase or decrease of barrel length of bridges during detailed
engineering / construction: In that case for deriving PMC fee on account of qty variation,
scope change etc. cost shall be worked out proportionately based on the cost provision
given in the bidding document.
For example, Br. No. 1 (ch1/350) cost of 1x4.0x3.0 M RCC box with barrel length of 17.00
M given as Rs. 41.50 lakhs. If the barrel increases to 20.00M, the cost shall be worked
out as follows:
(41.50/17) x 20 = Rs. 48.82 Lakhs
Therefore, cost increase on account of qty deviation is Rs. 48.82 - Rs. 41.50 = Rs. 7.32
Lakhs
If the barrel length reduces to 15M, the reduction in qty shall be worked out as below
41.50 - (41.50/17) x 15 = Rs. 4.88 Lakhs
Note: In case of increase or decrease in span length of Bridges having girders and piers,
the qty deviation shall be worked out proportionately on the value as given in the bidding
document based on overall increase or decrease in span of the bridge.
However, if overall number of bridges increases with respect to the qty given in bidding
document, for deriving PMC fee, the NIT cost worked out for the new bridge or the
awarded value of the bridges whichever is less shall be considered.
ii) Sheds & Buildings
The Unit of various types of buildings are considered as Sq. M.
For deriving the PMC fee on account of scope change/ qty variation, the same shall be
worked out proportionately based on the cost provision as given in bidding document.
In case a new type of building / shed is added during detailed engineering or construction
(which is not originally envisaged in FSR or DPR), for deriving PMC fee, the NIT cost
worked out for the new building / shed or the awarded value of the building / shed
whichever is less shall be considered.
Qty Rate Amount Qty Rate Amount Change 
in Qty
Amount = Increase/decrease in 
cost as per LOA Rates (Rs) Absolute Cost Qty Rates
Rate as per  
NIT/Awarded 
whichever is less 
1 2 3=1X2 4 5 6=4x5 7=4-1 8=7x2 8' 9=6-(3+8) 10 11 12=10x11 13=6-12
Variation Statement for TA-1
Item/Description Unit Reasons for variationS.No
As per LOA As per Present estimate Variation due to scope 
change/New Item
Market price 
escalation
Variation Due To Qty Change
Market price 
escalation
Annexure - A6
Form of Bank Guarantee towards Bid Security 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act of India) 
Annexure-B
Bank Guarantee No. 
To: 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, 
SCOPE Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi - 110003 
Dear Sirs, 
Date .................................... . 
In accordance with Invitation for Bids under your Bid Document No ........ ... ($) 
, M/s .................... ............. (***) ...................................... having its Registered/Head 
Office at ..................................... hereafter called the 'Bidder') wish to  
participate in the said bid for DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works 
including OHE and S&T for Singrauli STPP Stage-III (2x800MW) Bidding Document 
No.: CS-1150-350A-9 As an irrevocable bank guarantee against Bid Security for an 
amount of INR Twenty lakhs only  (INR 20,00,000 /-)  valid for 165 days
from .................................................. (**) ........................................ required to be 
submitted by the Bidder as a condition precedent for participation in the said bid 
which amount is liable to be forfeited on the happening of any contingencies 
mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
We, the ........................................................................ .................... [Name & 
address of the Bank]. ............................................................ ...................... having 
our Head Office 
at. .................................... (#) ................................................ guarantee and 
undertake to pay immediately on demand by ................... . 
($) .................................................. [Name of the Employer] (hereinafter 
called the 'Employer') ...................... .......................... the amount of 
.................... (*)...... ............ without any reservation, protest, demand and 
recourse. Any such demand made by the 'Employer' shall be conclusive and 
binding on us irrespective of any dispute or difference raised by the Bidder. 
This Guarantee shall be irrevocable and shall remain valid upto ............... (@) 
If any further extension of this guarantee is required, the same shall be extended 
to such required period (not exceeding one year) on receiving instructions from 
M/s ......... (***) ... ................ [Bidder's Name]. ...................... on whose behalf this 
guarantee is issued. 
In witness whereof the Bank, through its authorised officer, has set its hand and 
stamp on this .............................................................. day 
of ................. ................. 20 .......... at. ....... . 
(Signature) 
(Name) 
(Designation with Bank Stamp) 
(Official e-mail Id) 
Authorised Vide 
Power of Attorney No ............................... . 
Date ........................................................... . 
NOTE : 1.  (**)This shall be the date of opening of bids.
(#) Complete mailing address of the Head Office of the Bank to be given. 
(@) This date shall be forty five (45) days beyond the validity of bid. 
(***) Write the name and addresses of all the Joint Venture partners, in 
case the bid is submitted by a Joint Venture in terms of Qualifying 
Requirements. 
2. The Bank Guarantee (BG) shall be from a Bank as per provisions of the
bidding documents.
3. The BG shall be issued on Non-Judicial stamp paper/e-stamp paper of
appropriate value as per applicable Stamp Act(s). The Stamp Paper/e-

Annexure-B1
Form of Insurance Surety Bond towards Bid Security 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act of India) 
Insurance Surety Bond No . ....................... . 
To 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, 
SCOPE Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi - 110003 
Dear Sirs, 
Date ................................................. . 
In accordance with Invitation for Bids under your Bid Document No . ..................... ($) .................. , 
Mls ............................... [Bidder's Name] ................................. having its Registered/Head Office at 
............................................................. (hereinafter called the 'Bidder') wish to participate in the said 
bid for DPR, DE & PMC for MGR and Railway Siding Works including OHE and S&T for  SINGRAULI 
SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, STAGE-III (2X800MW), Bidding Document No.: 
CS-1150-350A-9.  As an irrevocable Insurance Surety Bond against Bid Security for an amount of 
INR Twenty lakhs only valid for (INR 20,00,000 /-) 165 days from
.................................................. (*"') ........................................ required to be submitted by the Bidder 
as a condition precedent for participation in the said bid which amount is liable to be forfeited on the 
happening of any contingencies as mentioned under the Bidding Documents. 
We, the .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . ... . .. .. . . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . . .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. . ... .. . .. . [Name & address of the Insurer] 
......................................................... having our Head Office at ................................................... (#) 
................................................... guarantee and undertake to pay immediately on demand 
by ... ($) ................... [Name of the Employer] (hereinafter called the 
'Employer') the amount of 
............................................ (*) .......................................... without any reservation, protest, demand 
and recourse. Any such demand made by the 'Employer' shall be conclusive and binding on us 
irrespective of any dispute or difference raised by the Bidder and/or any right/remedy available to the 
bidder in terms thereof. 
This Insurance Surety Bond shall be unconditional as well as irrevocable and shall remain valid upto 
............................ (@) ........... If any further extension of this Insurance Surety Bond is required, the 
same shall be extended to such required period (not exceeding one year) on receiving instructions 
from M/s ...................... . ...................... [Bidder's Name].......................... on whose behalf this 
Insurance Surety Bond is issued. 
In witness where of the Insurer, through its authorised officer, has set its hand and stamp on 
this .......................................................................... day of ................................... 20 .......... at. ....... . 
(Signature) 
(Name) 
(Designation with Insurer Stamp) 
(Official e-mail Id) 
Authorised Vide 
Power of Attorney No ....................... . 
Date ................................................... . 
1.
NOTE : 1.  (**) This shall be the date of opening of Techno-Commercial bids.
(#) Complete mailing address of the Head Office of the Insurer to be given. 
(@) This date shall be forty five (45) days after the last date for which the bid is valid. 
2. The Insurance Surety Bond shall be from an Insurer as per guidelines issued by Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) as amended from time to time.
3. The Employer shall be the Creditor, the Bidder shall be the Principal debtor and the Insurance
company/Insurer shall be the Surety in respect of the Insurance Surety Bond to be issued by
the Insurer.
4. The Insurance Surety Bond shall be issued on Non-Judicial stamp paper/e-stamp paper of
appropriate value as per applicable Stamp Act(s). The Stamp Paper/e-Stamp paper shall be
purchased in the name of Bidder/Insurer issuing the guarantee.
5. While getting the Insurance Surety Bond issued, Bidders are required to ensure compliance
to the points mentioned in Form of Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond Verification Check
List enclosed in this Section of Bidding Documents. Further, Bidders are required to fill up this
Form and enclose the same with the Insurance Surety Bond.
Annexure-C 
Page 1 of 1 
Format of Undertaking 
(To be sent by Issuing Bank through official email-ID) 
From: xxxbank@xx.in 
To: xxx@ntpc.co.in 
We have issued BG No. …………………… dated ………………… for an amount of Rs. 
………………… on behalf of …………………[Name of Bidder] towards Bid Security / EMD 
for Tender No. ………… in favour of ………………… [Name of Employer]. 
Please find enclosed the soft copy of the Bank Guarantee and SFMS 
acknowledgement. This SFMS is sent on ………………. (date). 
Any demand / claim made by the 'Employer' shall be conclusive and binding on us 
irrespective of any dispute or difference raised by the Bidder till the validity period 
mentioned in the Bank Guarantee. 
However, in absence of the physical copy of aforementioned BG with the Employer, we 
undertake that Employer’s demand / claim will be binding and conclusive on us without 
the physical copy of aforementioned BG till fourteen (14) days from the due date of 
submission of Techno-Commercial bids. 
We undertake not to cancel the aforementioned BG No. …………… without written 
consent / instruction from NTPC. 
(Name of Bank Official) 
Authority No. …………. 
Annexure-D 
Index 
Chapter 
No 
Contents Page 
 Safety Rules 
1 
Section -1 
 Safety Management 7 
Section -2 
1 Safety in the workplace and equipment 27 
2 Safety in material handling and waste disposal 34 
3 Safety in welding and gas cutting 39 
4 Safety in the use of electricity 43 
5 Safety in the use of hand tools and power operated tools 47 
6 Safety in the use of ladders and stairs 50 
7 Safety in the use of lifting appliances and machines 51 
8 Safety in the use of transport, earthmoving equipment and the 
other construction machinery 
66 
9 Safety in the use of runways and ramps 69 
10 Safety in storage, handling and use of explosives 70 
11 Safety in excavation and tunneling work 78 
12 Safety in piling work 91 
13 Safety in erection, use and dismantling of scaffolds 93 
14 Safety in the construction of structural formwork 98 
15 Safety in concreting work 101 
16 Safety in construction, repair and maintenance of steep roofs 105 
17 Safety in construction of catch platforms, hoardings & chutes 106 
18 Safety in the work on or adjacent to water 107 
19 Safety in the building of cofferdams & caissons 108 
20 Safety in demolition work 109 
21 Fire  Extinguishers & other appliances of fire fighting 112 
Appendix: 
Annexure I Indian Standards on Safety 114 
Annexure II Format describing the Basic Structure of Safety Plan 116 
Annexure III Permit Formats 117 
Annexure IV Definitions 125 
1  
  
NTPC SAFETY RULES   
FOR CONSTRUCTION AND ERECTION OF POWER PLANTS  
  
INTRODUCTION:  
NTPC Limited is a Maharatna organization taking lead in realizing the power dreams of the Nation 
with a vision “To be one of the World’s largest and best power utilities, Powering India’s growth”. 
Safety is one of the prime concerns  of NTPC  and it always strives  towards accident fre e 
construction, erection, commissioning, operation and maintenance of its power projects. In this 
process, NTPC has already formulated Safety policy and guidelines for smooth execution of all its 
project activities.  
In order to strengthen the existing Safety Rules for Construction and Erection and thereby curbing 
the chances of accidents in Construction & Erection works at various projects of NTPC, the existing  
safety rules have been revised for strict implementation. These Safety Rules lay down the safet y 
requirements for safe execution of project activities, responsibilities of the contracting agencies, 
and all concerned involved in Construction and Erection.   
A. RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONTRACTORS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFETY RULES:  
The Safety Rules for C onstruction & Erection as outlined hereunder, while setting out a broad 
parameter of safety norms, are not exhaustive. The contractor and his agencies are advised to 
refer to the following statutory provisions as amended from time to time for details and s trict 
compliance therewith.  
FOR GREENFIELD PROJECTS:  
(a) Building and Other Construction Workers (regulation of employment and conditions of 
service) Act, 1996 (briefly referred to as BOCW Act),  
(b) Building and other construction workers (regulation of employment and conditions of service) 
Central Rules, 1998  (briefly referred to as BOCW Rules) as adopted by the various State 
Governments,  
  
FOR EXPANSION, MODIFICATION, ALTERATION AND, OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY WITHIN AN 
EXISTING PLANT OPERATING AS PER APPROVED SITE PLAN UNDER THE FACTORIES ACT;  
  
(a) Factories Act, 1948,   
(b) Factories Rules, as adopted by the various State Governments  
(c) BOCW Act  
(d) BOCW Rules  
  
The contractor is also required to ensure compliance with all the relevant Acts/Rules in addition 
to above.  
   
2  
  
It shall be incumbent on the contractor to ensure that the requirements of safety, statutory or 
otherwise specified, are fully met. Thus the onu s of implementation of the norms so prescribed 
shall squarely rest with the contractor concerned or, on his behalf, his sub-contractor or any other 
agency deployed by him, indemnifying NTPC from all the liabilities that may arise out of any failure 
to comply with the above mentioned Acts/Rules or any contravention thereof by the contractor 
or any other sub-agency on his behalf.   
Safety cannot be ensured solely through Rules and Regulations or Codes. It is the responsibility of 
the Contracting Agency to ens ure that basic safety principles are incorporated in the planning 
stage of their mobilization, execution, installation of machines, equipment, storage, etc ., and 
initiate and maintain safety programs. It is desirable to have a planned programme and secure 
adequate cooperation of senior management, EICs, sub -contracting agencies, supervisory 
personnel and workers involved to ensure the implementation of the provisions of these Rules in 
true spirit so as to achieve the ultimate goal of accident prevention.  
It shall also be the responsibility of the contracting agency to provide amenities and safety 
requirements on each construction job in order to reduce or to eliminate hazards of construction 
activities and also to provided necessary first aid facilities as well as Ambulance van (in case of 
major agencies) for prompt transportation of injured persons to a physician or hospital.  
It is also mandated that the authorized representative of NTPC, namely, the Engineer- in-charge, 
may, at his convenience, exercise su ch superintendence, supervision and, or control as may be 
deemed necessary, but this shall not absolve the contractor of his basic responsibility for strict 
compliance with the norms, standards and, or legal provisions as applicable under the Factories 
Act/Rules and the Building and other construction (regulation of employment and conditions of 
service) Act/Rules.  
  
Section wise checklist of provisions of BOCW Act/Rules is given hereunder for ready reference 
of the contractor. (This list has been prepared in chronological order with primary importance to  
Section of Act and secondary importance to Rules)   
S - Refers relevant Sections in BOCWA   
R - Refers relevant Rules in BOCWR   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
3 
Sl. 
No. ITEMS RELEVANT SECTIONS / RULES IN BOCWA 
AND BOCWR AND RBOCWR  
1 Registration of establishment  S – 7, R – 23 to 27  
2.  Display of registration certification at 
workplace   
R – 26 (5)  
3.  Hours of work  S – 28 R – 234 to 237  
4. Register of overtime  S – 28; S – 29 R – 241(1) Form XXII 
5.  Weekly rest and payment at rest  R – 235  
6.  Night shift  R – 236  
7.  Maintenance of workers registers and 
records   
S – 30 R – 238  
8.  Notice of commencement and 
completion   
S – 46 R – 239  
9.  Register of persons employed as building 
workers   
R – 240  
10.  Muster roll and wages register  R – 241(1) (a); Form XVI and XVII  
11.  Payment of wages  R – 248  
12.  Display of notice of wages regarding  R – 249  
13. Register of damage or loss  R – 241(1)(a); Form XIX, XX, XXI 
14.  Issue of wages book  R – 241(2)(a); Form XXIII 
15.  Service certificate for each workers  R – 241(2)(b); Form XXIV  
16.  Display an abstract of BOCWA and 
BOCWR   
R – 241(5)  
17.  Annual return  R – 242; Form XXV  
18.  Drinking water  S – 32  
19.  Latrines and Urinals  S – 33 R - 243  
20.  Accommodation  S – 34  
21.  Creches  S – 35  
22.  First-aid boxes  S – 36 R – 231 and Schedule III  
23.  Canteens  S – 37 R – 244  
24.  Food stuff and other items served in the 
canteens   
R – 245  
25.  Supply of tea and snacks in work place  R – 246  
26.  Food charges on no loss no profit basis  R - 247  
27.  Delhi BOCW welfare Board Rules  R – 250 to 296  
28.  Safety committee  S – 38 R – 208  
4  
  
29.   Safety officer   S – 38 R – 209 and Schedule VII   
30.   Reporting of accidents and dangerous 
occurrences   
S – 39,R – 210   
31.   Procedure for inquiry in to the causes of 
accidents   
R – 211   
32.   Responsibility of employer   S - 44 R – 5   
33.   Responsibility of Architects, Project 
engineer and Designers   
R – 6   
34.   Responsibility of workmen   R – 8   
35.   Responsibility for payment of wages and 
compensation   
S – 45   
36.   Penalties and Procedures   S – 47; S – 55   
37.   Excessive noise, vibration etc.   R – 34   
38.   Fire Protection   R – 35   
39.   Emergency action plan   R – 36   
40.   Fencing of motors   R – 37   
41.   Lifting of carrying of excessive weight   R – 38   
42.   Health, Safety and Environmental Policy   R – 39   
43.   Dangerous and Harmful Environment   R – 40   
44.   Overhead protection   R – 41   
45.   Slipping, Tripping, Cutting, Drowning and 
Falling Hazards   
R – 42   
46.   Dust, Gases, Fumes, etc.   R – 43   
47.   Corrosive substance   R – 49   
48.   Eye Protection   R – 45   
49.   Head Protection and other protection 
apparel   
R – 46; R – 54   
50.   Electrical Hazards   R – 47   
51.   Vehicular traffic   R – 48   
52.   Stability of structure   R – 49   
53.   Illumination   R – 50; R – 124   
54.   Stacking of materials   R – 51   
55.   Disposal of debris   R – 52   
56.   Numbering and marking of floors   R – 53   
57.   Lifting appliances and gears   R – 55 to 81   
58.   Runways and Ramps   R – 82 to 85   
59.   Working on or adjacent to water   R – 86 & 87   
5  
  
60.   Transport and earthmoving equipment’s   R – 88 to 95   
61.   Concrete work   R – 96 to 107   
62.   Demolition   R – 108 to 118   
63.   Excavation and Tunneling works   R – 119 to 168   
64.   Ventilation   R – 153   
65.   Construction, repair and maintenance of 
step roof   
R – 169 to 171   
66.   Ladders and Step ladders   R – 172 to 174   
67.   Catch platform and hoardings, chutes, 
safety belts and nets   
R – 175 to 180   
68.   Structural frame and formworks   R – 181 to 185   
69.   Stacking and unstacking   R – 186 & 187   
70.   Scaffold   R – 188 to 205   
71.   Cofferdams and Caissons   R – 206 to 211   
72.   Explosives   R – 212 & 213   
73.   Piling   R – 214 to 222   
74.   Medical Examination for building and 
other construction worker, Crane 
operator an Transport vehicle drivers   
R – 81; R – 223(a)(iii) and Schedule   
75.   Medical examination for occupational 
health hazards   
R – 233(a)(iv)   
76.   Charging of workers for Medical 
Examination   
R – 223(b)   
77.   Occupational health centres and Medical 
officers   
R – 225 and Schedule X & XI   
78.   Ambulance van & room   R – 226 & 227 and Schedule IV & V   
79.   Stretchers   R – 228   
80.   Occupational health service for building 
workers   
R – 229   
81.   Medical examination for occupational 
health hazards   
R – 223(a)(iv)   
82.   Emergency care services and emergency 
treatment   
R – 232   
83.   Panel of experts and agencies   Central Rule 250   
84.   Power of inspectors   Central rule 251   
  
B. RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF WORKERS  
  
6  
  
(a) It shall be the responsibility of the worker to comply with the requirements of safety as laid 
down for him and the group of workers to which he belongs and fully cooperate in the 
discharge of the responsibility that has been assigned to the contractor.  
(b) If he discovers any defects in the lifting appliance, lifting gear, lifting device or those 
concerning any transport equipment or other construction equipment or tools as well as the 
physical work conditions, he will report such defects promptly to his empl oyer or NTPC 
Engineer or other person in authority;  
(c) No building worker shall, unless duly authorized or in case of absolute necessity, remove or 
interfere with any fencing, guards, gangways, gear, ladder, hatch covering, life saving 
appliances, lighting or other things whatsoever required and provided for safety and health. If 
any of the aforesaid things is removed, the persons engaged in the work shall restore such 
thing at the end of the period during which its removal was necessary;  
(d) Every worker shall use only means of access provided in accordance with the approved norms 
and no person shall authorize or order another to use such means of access or method other 
than those approved;  
(e) Workers shall use such means of access and egress for going to and exiting from the workplace 
as provided.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     SECTION - I 
SAFETY MANAGEMENT 
7  
  
  
1.0 SAFETY MANUAL AND SAFETY POLICY:  
1.1 The Safety policy of the contracting agency should reflect the commitment of the concerned 
agency towards safety and health of the workers specified for the particular site.  
1.2 The Contractor shall have Safety Plan detailing the safety norms evolved through Safety Policy 
and Job Safety Analysis (JSA) or Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment (HIRA) of all package 
activities and constitute a Safety management program. Contracts shall also ensure POWRA  
(point of work risk assessment) before start of any activity.  
1.3 The safety management programme in the form of Safety Manual shall give det ails of 
provisions proposed by the agency w.r.t.  Job Safety Analysis (JSA )  or Hazard Identification 
and Risk Assessment (HIRA) to ensure safety of the employees and elimination of health 
hazards. The Safety Manual including safety policy duly signed by the head/senior executive 
of the agency shall be submitted to the concerned Engineer-Incharge(EIC), NTPC before start 
of their project activities at site.  
1.4 Each contracting agency shall have facilities for conducting the above safety management 
programme, commensurate with magnitude of the work under contract.  
  
2.0 APPOINTMENT OF SAFETY OFFICER/SAFETY SUPERVISOR:  
2.1 Each contracting Agency shall provide a sufficient number of qualified, suitable and experienced 
persons to manage all safety related matter on Site relating to the works. Irrespective of 
manpower employed by the agency whether temporary, casual, probationer, regular or 
permanent or on contract, Agency  shall deploy a  qualified Safety Officer/executive, 
responsible for carrying out the safety management programme before start of the work.   
2.2 The safety officer shall create an organization, commensurate with the project activities, 
consisting of other staff as required for suitable deployment.  
2.3 The schedule of requirement of safety personnel is given below.  
  
No. of Workers  No. of Safety Supervisors  No. of Safety Officers  
Up to  100  1 1 
101 to 250  2  1 
251 to 500   4  1  
501 to 1000   6 2  
1000 to 2000   6+ One additional supervisor up to 
every additional 250 workers  
3  
2000-3000 10+ One additional supervisor up to 
every additional 250 workers 
4 
3000-4000 14+ One additional supervisor up to 
every additional 250 workers 
5 
Above 4000 18 + One additional supervisor up 
to every additional 250 workers  
5 + one safety officer up to 
addition 1000 workers 
8  
  
  
2.4 The qualification and experience of the safety personnel should meet the following criteria.  
  
a) Safety Supervisor: (i) Possesses recognized degree in any branch of Engineering. OR  
      (ii) Diploma in any branch of Engineering  with at least one year  
           construction experience.  
  
b) Safety Officer/Safety Executive: Qualification as given under BOCW Act/rules  and 
minimum experience of three years.  
2.5 In case  contractor fails to employ the required safety professionals, the department may     
at the cost and risk of the contractor deploy additional/required safety professionals. The 
cost incurred towards this shall be deducted from contractor's bill at following the rates  
or actual whichever is higher. 
 
       l.  Safety Engineer Rs. 1500/day. 
                   2. Safety Supervisor Rs. 1000/day. 
3.0 MEETING FOR SAFETY AFTER AWARD OF THE CONTRACT:  
Representatives of contracting agency along with safety Officer/executive shall  meet the 
concerned EIC of the particular activity prior to start of construction activities for the purpose 
of discussing safety standards and requirements applicable to the wo rk under contract. The 
person representing the agency should be a responsible person for all their site activities.  
4.0 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT:   
4.1 The contracting agency should ensure sufficient inventory of personal protective equipment  
(PPEs) prior to initial mobilization as specified in the Bidding Documents.  After identifying the 
need of the required PPEs for various activities performed at the site, an additional inventory 
of approx. 20% of required PPEs should be maintain during the execution of the work.  A PPE 
plan shall be prepared which gives fair idea regarding issue of PPE s to various personnel as 
per the following 'PPE Selection Matrix'.  
4.2 Mandatory PPEs: Wearing of Safety Helmet, Safety Shoes and reflective jacket is mandatory 
for all work at site and it should be ensured that all employees and project visiting personnel 
shall invariably wear safety helmet, safety shoes & reflective jacket.   
 
PPE Matrix (apart from mandatory PPEs, i.e., Safety Helmet & Safety Shoes)  
Activity  
Type of Protection  Remarks, if 
any  Hand  Eye  Ear  Body  Respiratory  Others  
Gas Welding & 
Cutting  
LG  WG  -  LA  *SCBA/ 
OLBA  
-  * for confined 
space  
Electric Arc  
Welding  
LG  HMWS  -  LA  *SCBA/ 
OLBA  
-  * for confined 
space  
9 
Rigging CG SG - -- 
Working at 
Height 
- SG - DLFBH - *FAS * for vertical
columns
Grinding & 
Chipping 
CG FS / SG - LA - - -- 
Working in 
High Noise 
- - EP / 
EM 
- - - -- 
Handling of 
Cement 
Concrete 
RG SG - - DM - 
Blasting CG SG EP* - - - * at noise area
Excavation CG SG - - DM - *Gum boot in
place of
Safety shoe
for foot
Chemical 
Handling 
PVCG CSG - PVCA - - *Full bod y
rubber suit
with hood
Electrical and 
C&I  
ERG* SG - - - - *For high 
voltages
Sand/shot 
blasting 
CG - EP/ 
EM 
CA SAMH - 
ABBREVIATIONS: FS: Face Shield, CSG: Chemical splash goggles, HMWS: Helmet mounted welder's 
shield, GB: gum boot, DLFBH: Double lanyard full body harness, SG: Safety goggles, DM: Dust 
mask, SAMH L Supplied air mask/hood, EP/EM: Ear plug/Ear Muff, CG: Cotton hand gloves, LG: 
Leather hand gloves, LA: Leather apron, RG: Rubber gloves, PVCG: PVC Gloves, PVCA: PVC Apron, 
SCBA: Self-contained breathing apparatus, WG: Welding goggles, ERG: Electrical Rubber Gloves. 
OLBA : Online breathing apparatus  
4.3 The above-mentioned PPEs should be made available with contractor at site and issued to the 
concerned workers on the day of employment . All PPEs shall comply with ISI standards with 
valid test certificates.   
4.4 At least two breathing apparatus sets (complying requirement as per IS: 10245) shall be 
provided at each site where excavation/tunneling works and Welding/ Cutting operations in 
confined areas are being carried out, to rescue the victims under exposure to harmful 
gases/vapors, if any.  
5.0 SAFETY COMMITTEE: 
10  
  
5.1 Safety commi ttee shall be formed within each contracting agency comprising of worker 
representatives with equal no. of management representatives as per the provisions of BOCW 
Act/rules. This committee in each agency shall meet at least once in every month. The safety 
officer of the concerned agency shall coordinate these meetings. NTPC Safety officer shall be 
special invitee for Safety Committee meetings. The safety committee functioning shall be in 
line with the provisions of BOCW Act/Rules.  
5.2 Apart from the above, ea ch agency shall organize safety meetings every day before start of 
day’s work to educate & motivate the workers about the necessity of safety. Case study of 
accident/ incident can be shared in these meetings.  
5.3 The contractor shall also regularly organize safety meetings for all job supervisors/foremen.  
5.4 Weekly meeting with agencies’ Safety Officers to be organized by  safety department of NTPC          
and minutes to be recorded, circulated and compliance status to be checked on regular basis.  
  
6.0 SAFETY MESSAGE PROPAGATION:  
6.1 Contracting agencies shall arrange for display of safety hoardings depicting suitable safety 
cartoons/messages/ cautionary notices at appropriate places of project site to remind the 
workers to perform their duties safely. Mini mum one safety message board/hoarding of 
appropriate size for every 10  workers to be provided and maintained by the concerned 
agency.   
6.2 Apart from safety hoardings, each agency should maintain a safety bulletin board at all their 
work locations. Such safety bulletin boards should depict the activities being planned for the 
day, good practices, permit details etc.  
6.3 Safety suggestion boxes shall be kept at each contractor’s office at site for obtaining safety 
suggestions from the workers. Best suggestions sho uld be implemented and may be 
rewarded suitably to encourage the workers for safety.  
  
7. COMPETENCY OF EMPLOYEES:  
7.1 Throughout the course of the contract, persons employed by agency shall be physically fit,     
qualified/experienced to perform their assigned duties/ jobs.   
7.2 Employees shall not, knowingly be permitted to work in a manner that their ability or 
alertness is so impaired because of fatigue, illness or any other reason, that it may expose 
them and or others to injury.  
7.3 No worker, vehicle operator shall be less than 18 years of age. And the vehicle operator shall 
have a valid license as per requirements of Motor Vehicle Act.  
7.4 Contractor shall comply with all applicable state/central laws and codes related to 
employment of operators for Hoist, Shovel,  Crane, Tractor,  Bull-dozer, any other howling 
heavy equipment/vehicle.   
 
 
8.0 SAFETY INDUCTION AND TRAINING :  
11  
  
8.1 Each worker   deployed by the agency shall be given 2 -days induction training which  shall 
include the medical examination and instructions related to particular job, fire fighting, first-
aid and reporting of accidents. All employees shall be given safety training as per BOCW 
Act/Rules.  
8.2 The contracting agency shall also impart job specific skill based safety training to a ll its 
employees (Minimum one day) on various related safety topics using internal/external safety 
professionals/consultants as per the matrix given below. Record of such trainings and 
attendance particulars shall be maintained in a register for ready refe rence to statutory 
authorities/engineer-in charge.  
  
TRAINING MATRIX:  
Name of  topic   Executives  Super 
visors  
Skilled  
Workmen  
Other 
Workers  
Safety Induction   Y Y Y Y 
Accident_ Causes, factors, cost  Y Y Y - 
Industrial hazards & Accident Prevention  Y Y Y - 
Investigating, reporting, records  Y Y - - 
Personal Protective Equipment  - Y Y Y 
Construction Safety & Role of Supervisory 
personnel   
- Y - - 
Permit to Work (PTW)  - Y Y y 
Statutory Provisions (BOCW Act/Rules, 
Factories Act 1948 etc.)  
Y Y y y 
Material handling  - y Y Y 
Emergency Management  Y Y Y - 
Electrical Safety  - Y Y - 
Fire safety   Y Y Y Y 
First Aid & CPR (cardio pulmonary 
resuscitation)  
- Y Y Y (Selected) 
Safety in Welding & Cutting   - - Y - 
Safety Audit  Y Y - - 
Safety in Lifting Tools & Tackles  - Y Y y 
Safety in Working at height  - Y Y Y 
Safety in Confined space work  - Y Y Y 
Defensive Driving   - Y* Y* Y* 
 
*for construction vehicle operators, helpers & crane operators                                                          Y=Yes  
9.0 ID PASS 
12  
  
9.1 CLIMS (Contract Labor  Information Management System) will be the criterion for entering or 
gate pass system if implemented at site. 
9.2 The contractor shall ensure that all personnel working at site having  a photo Identity card 
before they are engaged for any work  and properly mentioned details like validity, 
Category/designation and work area etc. This ID card should be issued only after ensuring their 
screening test, medical fitness and safety induction training. Id card gate pass shall be 
indicated with 3 nos. of offence marks.  With each offence the gate pass of concerned 
workmen/ supervisor will be punched giving on the sp ot indication of persons indulging in 
unsafe actions.  
9.3 Drinking of Alcoholic beverages is strictly prohibited. Employees under the influence of any 
intoxicants, even to the slightest degree, shall not be permitted to remain at work. Each 
contractor should maintain ‘breath analyzer’ to determine the intoxicated workers at site.  
  
10    SAFETY AUDIT   
10.1   Internal Safety Audit once in every six months by the contracting agency and external safety         
          audit as once in a year by third party  shall be conducted, with prior intimation to EIC and        
          NTPC Safety Deptt. The external auditing agency should be reputed safety institution or a  
          certified Safety Auditor under any statutory legislation. The audit report along with time  
          bound action plan should be submitted to Engineer-in-charge and NTPC Safety Dept.    
 
10.2  Apart from above, Electrical Safety Audit shall be conducted quarterly by a team comprising 
of Electrical engineer, Safety representative of contractor and NTPC Elec trical  Erection 
representative covering the following and submit the report to EIC.   
i) Electrical incidents investigation findings and remedial measures implemented.   
ii) Adequacy of power supply requirements  
iii) Power distribution system in place   
iv) Updated electrical single line diagram including the IP44 DBs arrangement.   
v)  Electrical protection devices – ELCBs, O/L protections etc.   
vi) Earth or ground connection and earth pit maintenance details   
vii)  Education and training of electrical personnel undertaken   
viii)  Any other point appropriate to the site conditions.   
  
11.  SAFETY BUDGET  
Every contracting agency should clearly estimate and allocate a separate budget head for 
safety requirements every year and make the safety activity plan for the year and submit to 
NTPC EIC & Head of Safety. Budget allocations should be practically adequate to the site safety 
requirements and the details shall be intimated to the concerned EIC and safety deptt. before 
start of the work under the contract and subsequently, every year by 15th of April. Engineer-
in Charge in consultation with Head of Safety shall review and monitor the effective utilization 
of allocated budget for safety related activities by the Contractor.  
 
12. REPORTING AND INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENTS AND DANGEROUS OCCURRENCES:  
13  
  
12.1 Reporting of accidents: Notice of any accident (the prescribed form at is annexed to the 
manual) to a worker at the building or construction site that  
(a) Causes loss of life; or  
(b) Disables a worker from working for a period of 48 hours or more immediately following 
the accident;  
Shall forthwith be sent by Telegram, Telephone, Fax, Email or similar other means including 
special Messenger within four hours in case of fatal accidents and 72 hours in case of other 
accidents, besides the Engineer-in-charge, to:   
I. The Regional Labour Commissioner (Central);  
II. The Board with which the worker involved was registered as a beneficiary;  
III. Director General of Building and other construction (regulation of employment and 
conditions of service) Act/Rules; and 
IV. The next of kin or other relative of the worker involved in the accident;  
 
12.2 Further, notice of accident shall be sent in respect of an accident which   
(a) Causes loss of life; or  
(b) Disables the injured worker from work for more that 10 days to  
(1) The Officer-in-charge of the nearest Police Station;  
(2) The District Magistrate or, if the District Magistrate by order so desires, to  
(3) The Sub-Divisional Magistrate;  
 
12.3 Where any accident causing disablement that subsequently results in death, notice thereof 
in writing of such death, shall be sent the Authorities mentioned above within 72 hours  of 
such death.  
 
12.4 In case of an accident causing minor injury, first-aid shall be administered and that resulting 
in disability of 48 hours or more, the injured worker shall be given first-aid and immediately 
transferred to a Hospital or other place for medical treatment.  
 
12.5 All near-miss accidents shall be reported to NTPC Engineer In -charge and Safety Officer as 
per prescribed format.  
  
12.6 Reporting of dangerous occurrences: The following classes of dangerous occurrences shall 
be reported to the Inspector having jurisdiction, whether or not any disablement or death 
caused to the worker, namely:  
(a) Collapse or failure of lifting appliances, or hoist, or conveyors, or similar equipment for 
handling of building or construction material or breakage or failure of rope, chain or 
loose gears; or overturning of cranes used in construction work; 
(b) Falling of objects from height;  
(c) Collapse or subsidence of soil, any wall, floor, gallery, roof or any other part of any 
structure, platform, staging, scaffolding or means of access including formwork;  
(d) Contract work, excavation, collapse of transmission;  
(e) Explosion of receiver or vessel used for storage at pa pressure than atmospheric 
pressure, of any gases or any liquid or solid used as building material;  
14  
  
(f) Fire and explosion c ausing damage to any place on construction site where building 
workers are employed;  
(g) Spillage or leakage of any hazardous substance and damage to their container;  
(h) Collapse, capsizing, toppling or collision of transport equipment;  
(i) Leakage or release of harmful toxic gases at the construction site;  
(j) In case of failure of a lifting appliance, loose gear, hoist or building and other 
construction work, machinery and transport equipment at a construction site, such 
appliances, gear, hoist, machinery or equipment and the site of such occurrence shall, 
as far as practicable, be kept undisturbed until inspected by the Authorities;  
 
12.7 Every notice given for fatal accidents shall be followed by a written report to the concerned 
Statutory Authorities and the Engineer In-charge in the specified Form annexed as Schedule, 
under acknowledgement.  
 
12.8 Incident / injury statistics shall be maintained by all agencies cause wise.  
 
12.9 Investigation of accidents and dangerous occurrences    
Besides reporting, it shall be the responsibility of the contractor to constitute a team 
(members as per the gravity of the incident) of responsible person to thoroughly investigate 
all incidents involving near -miss accidents, lost -time and reportable acci dents and 
dangerous occurrences with a view to finding out the causative factor, taking remedial 
measures and fixing responsibility, and make a copy of the investigation report along with 
action-plan, specifying a definite time -frame for implementation of the findings, available 
to the Engineer in-charge forthwith.  
  
13. MEDICAL AND FIRST AID AMENITIES:  
13.1 It is the responsibility of each contracting agency to ensure the availability of suitable 
arrangements at their work site for rendering prompt and efficient First aid to injured 
persons.  
13.2 Arrange one trained and certified first aid for every twenty workers in each shift. 
13.3 Ambulance with proper equipment for prompt transportation of the injured persons to a 
physician or a hospital shall be provided before start of the work in cases where 500 or more 
than 500 workers are employed. For smaller contracts, where  less than 500 workers  are 
employed, Contractor shall have a tie-up with suitable Agency for providing Ambulance with 
proper equipment for prompt transportation of the injured persons to a physician or a 
hospital in case of an Accident / Emergency. Further, Contractor shall submit a proof of the 
same to EIC/Safety Officer of NTPC. 
13.4 Deploy one full time construction medical officer (qualification as per Schedule XI of BOCW 
Central Rules -1998) for cases where 500 or more workers are employed (upto one thousand 
workers) and one additional construction medical officer for additional one thousand 
workers or part thereof. For smaller contracts, where less than 500 workers are employed, 
Contractor shall have a tie -up with suitable Hospital / Nursing home in the vi cinity of the 
15  
  
Project/Site where work is being executed, for providing adequate medical treatment by 
qualified medical officers and nursing staff, as and when required. Further, Contractor shall 
submit a proof of the same to EIC/Safety Officer of NTPC. 
Notwithstanding anything stated above, Contractor/Agency shall strictly comply with the 
requirements of relevant BOCW Act/ BOCW Rules/ Factory Act/Factory Rules/ any other 
statutory Act/Rules/Law with regards to providing suitable medical facilities to the workers. 
In case contractor fails to employ the required construction medical officer alongwith 
Additional staff, corresponding payment for the same shall not be made and/or necessary 
action as per provisions of the Bidding documents shall be taken by NTPC.  
13.5 Additional staff including one nurse, one dresser-cum compounder, one sweeper-cum-ward 
boy with each construction medical officer for full working hours  
13.6 The Telephone nos. of Medical officer, Hospital(s) or ambulance shall also be conspicuously 
displayed at each work site.  
13.7 First-aid kits as approved by medical officer shall be provided at accessible points in the ratio 
of at least one kit for every 50 employees.   
13.8 Health Management:  The site manager shall implement health examinations for the 
working personnel on a regular basis.    
  
Types of health 
examination  Target  Frequency  
General health 
examination  All workers  Annual  
Occupational health 
examination  
(Audiometric, PFT, 
Vision etc.)  
Worker engaging in noise, dust, 
vibration, harmful light generating  
work  
Annual  
Occupational 
health examination 
(Vision)  
Personnel involved in operation of 
Cranes, heavy vehicles  Annual  
Occupational 
health examination 
(Vertigo/Height 
pass)  
Workers engaged at Height Works  At the time of induction 
training and every year  
  
 
14. TESTING & EXAMINATION OF LIFTING, TOOLS, TACKLES, PRESSURE VESSELS AND OTHER 
EQUIPMENT:  
14.1 All the lifting equipment, tools, tackles, pressure vessels etc. shall be tested & examined as   
per BOCW or Factories Act and rules made there under.   
16  
  
14.2 The records & certificates of such testing & examination shall be maintained and readily 
available for reference to statutory authorities/engineer-in-charge.  
14.3 Proper color coding system should be maintained and marking should be done accordingly 
on all lifting tackles. 
14.4 Regular testing of ELCBs and RCCBs by competent electrician must be ensured by agencies  
and record should be maintained. 
 
15.     EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN  
15.1 The contractor shall ensure that an Emergency Management Plan  is prepared to deal with 
emergencies arising out of:  
a. Fire and explosion;  
b. Collapse of lifting appliances and transport equipment;  
c. Collapse of building, sheds or structure etc.;  
d. Gas leakage or spillage of dangerous goods or chemicals;  
e. Drowning of workers, sinking vessels, and  
f. Landslides getting workers buried; floods, storms and other natural calamities.  
15.2 While arrangements shall be made for emergency medical treatment and evacuation of the 
victim in the event of an accident or dangerous incident occurring, the chain of command 
and the responsible persons of the contractor with their telephone numbers and addresses 
for quick communication shall be adequately publicized and conspicuously displayed in the 
workplace.  
15.3 It is also required that there is a tie -up with the hospitals and fire stations located in the 
neighborhood for attending to the casualties promp tly and emergency vehicle kept on 
standby duty during the working hours for the purpose.   
15.4 It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to keep the Local Law & Order Authorities 
informed and seek urgent help, as the case may be, so as to mitigate the c onsequences of 
an emergency. Prompt communication to NTPC, telephonically initially and followed by a 
written report, shall be made by the contractor.  
  
16. ENFORCEMENT OF SAFETY CODE, SAFETY RULES & REGULATIONS:  
The Engineer-In charge shall ensure that the contractor is exercising at all times, reasonable 
and proper precautions for the safety of people at works and complying with the provisions 
of current safety rules and laws according to safety code and relevant statutes of state/central 
governments. In case of negligence or default, the agency shall be penalized suitably as per 
penal provisions of NTPC Safety Rules.  
  
17.   WORK PERMIT SYSTEM  
 
17.1 The Contractor shall implement Work Permit system, which is a formal written system used 
to control certain types of work that are potentially hazardous. A work permit is a document, 
which specifies the work to be done, and the precautions to be taken. Work Permits form an 
essential part of safe systems of work for many construction activities. They start the work 
17  
  
only after safe procedures have been defined and clearance taken from respective NTPC EICs. 
Permits to Work are usually required in high-risk areas as identified by the Risk Assessments.  
  
17.2 Examples of high-risk activities include but are not limited to:   
i) Entry into confined spaces   
ii) Cutting & welding    
iii) Working at Height along with 
checklist iv) Working on electrical 
equipment  
v) Heavy lifting operations   
vi) Removal of grating/ Handrail / floor opening    
vii) Material  Shifting  
  
The copies of recommended formats for reference is given in annexure-IV.  
  
17.3 The permit-to-work system should be fully documented, laying down:   
i) How the system works                                                                                                                           
ii) The jobs it is to be used for;                                                                                                                 
iii) The responsibilities and training of those involved; and                                                                    
iv) How to check its operation;   
17.4 A Work Permit authorization form shall be completed with the maximum duration period not 
exceeding 12 hours.   
17.5  A copy of each Permit to Work (PTW) shall be displayed  near to work are ( on PTW Display    
board) in close proximity to the actual works location to which it applies.  
 
  18.    ACCESS TO AND FROM THE WORKPLACE 
 
18.1 Safe, clean, well lit, unencumbered access and egress to and from work areas shall be     
    maintained at all times in normal operating conditions. 
18.2 The number and location of accesses and egresses from and to the workplace shall be       
    adapted to the number of people likely to be present at any time, and therefore to evacuate   
    from the workplace in case of emergency. 
18.3 If access and egress to  work areas are restricted due to operational conditions (e.g. access 
restricted due  to pressure testing, etc.), alternative access and egress ways must be 
implemented, so far as is  reasonably practicable. If this is not reasonably practicable, all 
concerned organizations and persons must be informed of the access restrictions, and work 
scheduling must be adapted in consequence. 
18.4 Temporary access to height or into ground openings shall be of purpose made material such    
as scaffolds, stair cases/towers and ramps, which incorporate guardrails . 
 
19.  INTERFERENCE WITH MOVING VEHICLES AND PEDESTRIANS 
 
18  
  
19.1 The circulation of vehicles and pedestrians must be segregated by establishing restricted 
areas, one way routes  where possible, pedestrian crossing zones and designated parking 
areas. 
19.2 The appropriate measures must be implemented in order to prevent collision between 
pedestrians and vehicles at pedestrian crossings. This may include, but shall not be limited to:  
- Mirrors; 
- Lighting; 
- Speed bumps before the crossing point. 
19.3 Vehicle and pedestrian ways shall be physically separated with Hard-barriers, so far as is 
reasonably practicable, and be indicated with signs. 
       
 
19.4 When it is not reasonably practical to implement a physical segregation, pedestrians must 
maintain safety distance of at least 2 meters from moving/operating vehicles at all times. 
19.5 Traffic rules must be made visible through signage and traffic stops, consistent with those 
used on public 
19.6  Roads as per road safety requirement. 
19.7 All pedestrians on Project sites must wear high-visibility garments. 
19.8 Pedestrians (including banksmen) must wear high-visibility garments in all areas where trucks 
and other vehicles (forklifts, cranes, etc.) maneuver. These areas must be clearly signaled / 
marked (floor painting, Hard-barriers, signs, etc.).Additional points: 
19.9 Competent banksmen must be used for operations involving reversing or maneuvering where 
space or view is restricted. 
19.10 Drivers must only operate vehicles they are competent to drive and must follow the established 
traffic routes and comply with all site rules. 
 
19.11 The maximum driving speed on site is 15 km per hour. 
19.12 Drivers and passengers must not get on or off moving vehicles. 
19.13 When driving a forklift, forks must be lowered, the mast tilted back. 
19.14 Smoking, eating, drinking, using a mobile phone or using earbuds or headphones when 
driving a vehicle is strictly prohibited. 
19.15 When the vehicle is not in use, it must be ensured that: 
• The engine is stopped and prevented from unauthorized use (e.g.: starter key 
removed),  brake applied (and with wheels chocked for heavy vehicles); 
• All raised parts are lowered to the ground or put in a safe position (cranes); 
• It does not  obstruct emergency exits, other routes, fire equipment or electricity 
panels. 
 

19  
  
20. HOUSEKEEPING 
The contractor shall ensure that their work area is kept clean, tidy and free from debris 
generated by their activities. All debris/scrap should be stored in separate bins. The work 
areas must be cleaned on a daily basis and 
a full cleaning session of each area shall be 
conducted on a weekly basis. All 
equipment, materials and vehicles shall be 
stored in an orderly manner. Access to 
emergency equipment, exits, telephones, 
safety showers, eye wash stations, fire 
extinguishers, pull boxes, fire hoses, etc. 
shall not be blocked or otherwise 
disturbed, restricted or delayed. 
 
21.  STACKING AND STORAGE PRACTICE 
Contractor Agency shall ensure stacked material is bonded on  a stable and level footing 
capable of carrying the mass of the stack. Adequate clearances shall be provided between 
the sides of the stack and top to facilitate unimpeded access to service equipment like 
overhead wiring, cranes, forklifts and firefighting equipment, and hoses. Circular items shall 
be sufficiently choked with wedges not with odd bits of materials. Free -standing stacks of 
gunny bags and sacks such as Cement bags shall be stacked to prescribe safe stacking 
heights with layers formed for stabl e bonding, preventing slippage causing accidents. 
Stacking against walls shall not be permissible. 
 
Contractor shall maintain the premises and surrounding areas in clean and clear manner 
with safe access and egress. There shall be sufficient and adequate storage racks, shelving, 
bins and pallets and material handling equipment to stack his construction materials such 
as Pipes, Structural and his construction enabling materials. Unwanted materials shall be 
promptly moved away for efficient material movement. 
 
Any temporary store shed will be built in conformity with fire safety requirements. The 
stores must be provided with adequate lighting arrangement (Flame proof / intrinsically 
safe depending upon the Zone category) and must be equipped with sufficient fi re 
extinguishing arrangement. “No Smoking” and other relevant signage must be displayed 
conspicuously at strategic locations and safety precautions must be strictly enforced. 
 
All material should be kept at least 150mm above from the ground by providing wooden 
packing below. Maximum height of material stacking should not be greater than 3 meter. 
All loose material must be kept in wooden box or in sharp edge protected drum and 
material identification details  to be displayed. Materials inside store room should be kept 
on scaffold rack. 
 
20  
  
Gas cylinder storage area must be 30m away from the hot work zone and separate storage 
facility must be available for empty and full cylinder with  proper shed. Storage area must 
be design in a way that 6 meter distance between LPG/DA and oxygen maintained 
 
22. CONFINED SPACES 
All Confined Spaces belonging to Subcontractor shall be identified and clearly signed 
posted as a confined space forbidden to una uthorized Personnel at every entrance. A 
method for preventing entry must be established and maintained for all Confined Spaces. 
Physical prevention system (such as locks) is preferred. 
 
Before commencing work in a Confined Space, the Subcontractor must obtain a Permit to 
Work from the relevant authority. 
 
The following requirements shall be met at any time: 
• Only competent and trained workers can participate to work in confined spaces 
(as a minimum as per local Law). A Confined Space Entry Log (or equivalent) must 
be used to identify the person inside the Confined Space at any time; 
• Air Analysis tests must be carried out to determine if the Confined Space is oxygen 
deficient and/or contains flammable substances, toxic agents, carbon monoxide 
and/or harmful physical agents. The air shall be analyzed before starting work, 
during work and after work. Adequate ventilation must be provided; 
• Working in the confined space without a watcher is strictly forbidden. An adequate 
means of communication is require d and shall enable easy and clear 
communication: 
• Between those inside the space, 
• Between those inside the space and those outside, 
• To summon help in case of emergency; 
• Adequate emergency provisions must be in place. In particular, necessary rescue 
equipment must be ready, pre inspected and available. The arrangements need to 
be suitable and sufficient for the rescue of persons in the event of an emergency. 
 
23. FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION 
Routine hot works should be described in the contractor Risk Control Plan . Non-routine hot 
works are submitted to daily hot works permits given by the relevant authority. 
Full and unrestricted access to emergency exits, fire -fighting equipment, fire contro l and 
emergency vehicles shall be maintained at all times. The Subcontractor shall provide, install 
and maintain their own temporary fire protection against hazards they introduce to the Site 
(work areas, storage areas, and temporary facilities under their responsibilities). 
 
Fire extinguishers shall be inspected at least annually by a certified person and visually 
inspected monthly and documented by the Contractor. 
21  
  
24. ELECTRICAL SAFETY 
Personal authorization must be issued by Contractor Management (or formally designed 
delegates) likely to perform or supervise electrical works.  
Without such an authorization validated by EIC, no Contractor’s employee shall undertake  
electrical works. 
No live work on high voltage or medium voltage is allowed. All high voltage and medium 
voltage electrical works must be performed on isolated equipment and only after verification 
of absence of voltage with suitable equipment. Low voltage and very low voltage live work is 
only allowed for measuremen t tests and checks of equipment. The below measures will be 
taken: 
• Work practices must protect against direct or indirect body contact by means of tools or 
materials and be suitable for work conditions and the exposed voltage level 
• A Lockout and Tagout pro cedure must be applied prior to commencing any electrical work. 
Prior to commencing works on isolated equipment, a verification of absence of voltage with 
suitable safety test equipment must be performed. 
• Energized panels will remain locked with a specific key or tool whenever they are unattended 
and tagged with the signs and warnings indicating the presence of danger. If not reasonably 
practicable, a restricted area delimited with physical barriers and supported by warning signs 
must be implemented around the opened equipment. 
• Only qualified electrical Contractor Personnel may enter substations and/or transformer vaults 
and only after being specifically authorized by NTPC EIC. 
• All joints (Both terminal and intermediate) in cable should be made using lugs an d joint area 
should be crimped using crimping tools. 
• All temporary connection should be provided through 30mA ELCB/RCCB using 3 core double 
insulated cable and only 3 pin industrial plug top will be used for connection.  
• Zero energy verification needs to b e ensured before any electrical operation using only VAV 
before working on a live circuit which has been isolated 
• Only industrial type DB to be used for connection and weather protection shed needs to be 
provided for every DB and shed height should not be less than man height. 
• Double earthing protection must be provided for every electrical equipment and earthing 
value should be less than 1 Ohm 
• Deployment of trained, experienced & licensed electrician as well as licensed electrical 
supervisor must be ensured at site as per Rule-45 of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 ; 
• EIC May perform screening/ competency test for all contractor electrical professions i.e. 
electrical engineers and helpers. Selection/ rejection of the personnel who appear for the 
screening is sole discretion of EIC 
• Electrical helper who will be engaged in helping the electrician/ engineer must have minimum 
ITI certificate to be eligible for working with him 
• All PPE’ s used while being involved in electrical work must be as per IS Standards available for 
electrical work 
 
25. COMPRESSED GAS CYLINDERS 
Gas cylinders shall be securely stored and transported, and identified and used in line with the 
safety Requirements as per Gas Cylinder Rules -2106. 
22  
  
Hose lines shall be adequately protected, inspected and tested for leaks in line with the safety 
Requirements. Flash back arrestor /NRV must be used at both ends of the hoses and all hose 
should be free from damage and fixed properly preferably using crimping clamps. Leakage test 
must be done before every  use by soap solution and physical inspection of hose must be 
carried out regularly. Only trolley attached with wheel will be used for cylinder transportation 
in which cylinders must be kept secured with chain. Only Industrial type regulator fitted with 
two stage double dial pressure gauze is allowed to be used. 
26. LIFTING OPERATIONS 
The Contractor shall prepare a lifting plan, checked and submit for authorization by 
contractor’s competent authorized persons prior to any lifting operation and formally 
communicated to all persons undertaking the work. 
All persons preparing, issuing lifting plans and all persons involved in lifting operations must 
be subject to formal competence checks by the contractor to ensure necessary training, 
experience and qualification prior to commencing work. The Subcontractor must ensure that 
their nominated Lifting Leader has appropriate qualifications. 
Contractor lifting plans include: 
The lifting methodology, step by step 
The risk analysis of the operation including consideration fo r weather conditions and work 
environments (e.g.: proximity of hazards and obstructions to the load, consideration for 
overturning, load integrity) where appropriate and consideration for simultaneous operations 
and the measures taken to avoid conflicting tasks in the lifting area 
The identification of the designated lifting area, the fall zone and the control measures to 
prevent access such as barriers, signs, etc. 
The description of the type, weight, size, shape and center of gravity of the load and the 
method used for slinging, attaching and detaching the load with the availability of approved 
lifting points on load when necessary 
The list of the certified and inspected equipment and lifting accessories to be used 
The composition of the team required to perform the task (crane driver, rigger, etc.) with the 
needed qualifications and description of their roles and responsibilities including the intended 
communication method 
Any Heavy equipment (crane, winch machine, etc.)  manufactured less than 15 years from the 
current year shall be only allowed to be used at our project Site’s. Pre-safety Inspection of the 
equipment by safety deptt. shall be done before mobilizing the equipment at our project site. 
 
The contractor must ensure that a competent operational  leader is formally appointed to 
supervise each lifting operation. All lifting plans must clearly define the specific roles and 
responsibilities for each person involved (e.g.: crane drivers, lifting coordinators and riggers) 
and must be checked and issued prior to lifting operation. Clear communication channels must 
be formally established and maintained between everyone involved in a lift with only 
authorized person giving instruction to the operator. 
23  
  
Special permission needs to be taken from NTPC EIC for tandem lifting and for any non-routine 
lifting operations must strictly adhere to the guidelines described in corresponding Standard / 
Procedures / Directive. 
No employee of the contractor shall be positioned under a suspended load or between a 
suspended load and fixed objects. 
All lifting equipment and accessories must have valid manufacturers certificates or thorough 
examination records and be uniquely identified, marked with the safe working load, listed in a 
register and subject to formal regular inspection as per EHS requirements and shall have valid 
certificates from a competent authority. Inspection before use by the operator is mandatory.  
All lifting hooks must have latch. All cranes shall be fitted with Automatic Safe Load Indicator 
(ASLI) and Anemo Meter.  
The contractor shall operate and maintain cranes and hoisting equipment in accordance with 
manufacturers' specifications and limitations and the safety Requirements. All defective, non-
inspected or unidentified (safe working load / identification  number) lifting equipment or 
accessories must be either removed from site or physically prevented from use. 
 
27. LOCKOUT TAGOUT (“LOTO”) 
Prior to performing work on Machines or Equipment, the Subcontract or shall ensure that all 
energy sources are isolated and  verify the absence of residual energy (e.g.: by using specific 
voltage detecting device for electricity). 
At any time, the c ontractor shall follow the Site -specific LOTO and Permit to Work rules.  The 
contractor must ensure that all of their affected Subcontractor Personnel receive the necessary   
training. Lockout/ Tagout must be implemented before servicing and maintenance is 
performed on  Machines and  Equipment, which could unexpectedly start -up, become 
energized, or release stored energy exposing persons  to a risk of injury, unless the works 
undertaken are performed using alternative measures that provide effective protection.  
Absence of residual energy must be verified using the suitable equipment or process adapted 
to the machine and the kind of energy to be checked before start of work. The contractor must 
procure suitable VAV instrument for verification of absence of voltage before implementing 
LOTO all by themselves. 
When the c ontractor is in charge of LOTO, each authorized person mu st be issued with  an 
individual lock with a unique key. The contractor shall secure areas where energy sources have 
been de energized, so as to prevent the access of unauthorized personnel and erect suitable 
signs. All affected Personnel shall be notified. 
Once an item of electrical equipment has been energized, an item of mechanical plant and/or 
System has been erected and released for Commissioning, no work will be allowed on such 
item of Equipment or System unless a valid Permit to Work (PTW) has been obtained from the 
relevant authority. 
 
28. MONTHLY SAFETY REPORT  
Agency has to submit the monthly safety activity report in the form of Lead-Lag indictor to NTPC 
Safety Deptt. Sample format attached as annexure –IV. 
24  
  
 
29. In case the Contractor doesn’t adhere to any of the provisions of the NTPC Safety Rules f or 
Construction and Erection of Power Plants , corresponding payment for the provisions not 
adhered, shall not be made and/or necessary action as per provisions of the Bidding documents 
shall be taken by NTPC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-II 
1. Safety at workplace and equipment 
 
1.0 GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
1.1. Housekeeping: 
25  
  
a. The contractor shall be primarily responsible for maintaining Good housekeeping and safety 
standards in the workplace; 
b. Loose materials that are not required for use shall not be placed or left behind so dangerously as 
to obstruct workplaces or passageways; 
c. All projecting nails shall be removed or bent to prevent injury; 
d. Equipment, tools and small objects shall not be left lying unattended or unsecured from where 
they could fall or cause a person to trip; 
e. Scrap, waste or rubbish shall not be allowed to accumulate in the site as these combustibles can 
create serious fire hazards and affect safe working; 
f. Workplaces and passageways that become slippery owing to spillage of oil or other causes shall 
be cleaned up or strewn with sand, ash or the like; 
g. Portable equipment shall be returned after use to their designated storage place. 
1.2. Means of access and egress shall consist of 
a. Adequate and safe means of access and egress shall be provided in all workplaces; 
b. The means of access and egress shall be maintained in a safe condition; 
1.3 Lighting and ventilation 
a. All practical measures shall be taken to prevent smoke, fumes etc. from obscuring any workplace 
or equipment at which any worker is engaged; 
b. Adequate and suitable artificial lighting shall be provided where natural lighting is not 
sufficient as per IS 3646 (Part II). The artificial lighting so provided shall no t cause any 
incidental any danger, including that of producing glare or disturbing shadows; 
c. To prevent danger to health from air contamination by dust generated during grinding, 
cleaning, spraying or manipulation of materials as also to provide protection against 
dangerous gases, fumes, vapours, mist, etc. effective arrangements shall be made for 
ventilation; 
d. Workers shall be provided with suitable respiratory protective equipment, if it is not 
technically possible to have uncontaminated air. To this end, a  study by a competent person 
shall be made to decide on the due protection. Sufficient illumination at all times for 
maintaining safe working conditions shall be provided where building workers are required to 
work or pass, and for passageways, stairways and landings such illuminations shall not be less 
a than 0.5 foot candles at the floor level; 
e. Where natural lighting is not adequate to prevent danger, adequate and suitable lighting shall 
be provided as per IS: 3646 – Part II; 
f. Artificial lighting shall not cause any danger due to a brightness greater than 10 foot candles 
per square inch, except where the angle of inclination from the eye to the source or the part 
pf the fitting as the case may be exceeds 20 0, including that of producing glare or disturbing 
shadows; 
g. Where necessary to prevent danger to health from air contamination by dust from the 
grinding, cleaning, spraying, or manipulating of materials or objects, arrangements shall be 
made to limit the concentration of the pollutants by thorough ventilation, and dust generated 
due to movement of earthmoving machinery and other construction equipment, by spray of 
water in the area from time to time; 
h. Adequate ventilation by the circulation of fresh air shall be maintained in such places where 
the concentration of pollutants is likely to affect the health of the workers; 
26  
  
i. Special care shall be taken to ventilate the workplace where gas cutting, welding or other 
operations involving generation of dangerous fumes, vapours, mists, gases etc is likely; 
j. Where it is  technically not possible to eliminate dust or noxious or harmful fumes or gases 
sufficiently to prevent injury to the health of the workers, the contractor shall provide suitable 
respiratory equipment like dust mask or gas/fume mask or breathing apparatus  or other 
suitable respiratory equipment.  
1.4.  Dangerous and harmful environment: 
a. When an internal combustion engine exhausts into confined space or excavation or tunnel or any 
other workplace where neither natural ventilation nor artificial ventilation system is adequate to 
keep the carbon monoxide content of the atmosphere below fifty parts per million, adequate and 
suitable measures shall be taken at such workplace in order to avoid exposure of building workers 
to health hazards; 
b. No building worker shall be allowed to enter any confined space or tank or trench or excavation 
wherein there is given off any dust fumes or other impurities of such nature and to such extent as 
is likely to be injurious or offensive to the building worker or in which explosive s, poisonous, 
noxious or gaseous material or other harmful articles have been carried or stored or in which dry 
ice has been used as a refrigerant, or which has been fumigated or in which there is a possibility 
of oxygen deficiency, unless all practical st eps have been taken to remove such dust, fumes or 
other impurities and dangers which may be present and to prevent any further ingress thereof, 
from such workplace or tank or trench or excavation; 
c. No worker shall be allowed to enter any such space unless a  responsible person has certified it 
safe and fit for the entry of such building workers. 
1.5.  Fumes/gases due to Welding and gas-cutting operations: When welding or cutting  operations 
are carried out in a confined space: 
a. Adequate ventilation, by means of exh aust fans or forced draught, as the condition may 
require, shall be constantly provided; otherwise enough quantity of air shall be circulated by 
means of air compressors to dilute the contaminant within permissible limits; 
b. Workers shall take necessary prec autions to prevent unburned combustible gas or oxygen 
from escaping inside a tank or vessel or other confined space; 
c. Welding or cutting operations on any container that has held explosives or where inflammable 
gases may have been generated, shall be undertaken after the container has been thoroughly 
cleaned by steam or other effective means; and 
d. Gas-test shall be carried out ensure that the confined space is completely free from 
combustible gases and vapours. 
1.6.    Dust, gases, fumes 
a. Concentration of dust, gases or fumes shall be prevented by providing suitable means to 
control their concentration within the permissible limit so that they may not cause injury or 
create health hazard to a building worker; 
27  
  
b. For protection against such hazardous substances, besides efficient and effective means of 
control, personal protective equipment like dust masks, breathing apparatus, other 
respiratory appliances, goggles, as the case may be, shall be provided.  
1.7. Excessive noise: 
a. Adequate measures shall be taken against the harmful effects of an excessive noise; 
b. Use of earplugs/muffs and anti-vibration gloves shall be ensured to protect the workers from the 
impact of exposure to such dangers; 
c. The noise level in no case shall exceed as prescribed in the concerned Rules and exposure in excess 
of 115 dBA over the period of a quarter of an hour cannot be permitted: 
1.8.   Corrosive substances:  
a. All corrosive substances, including alkalis and acids, shall be stored and u sed by a person 
dealing with such substances at a building or other construction work in such a manner that it 
does not endanger the building worker and suitable protective equipment shall be provided 
by the employer to a building worker during handling or  use of such substances at a building 
or other construction work and in case of spillage of such substances on the building worker, 
immediate remedial measures shall be taken; 
b. While protection of the body could be ensured by use of corrosion resistant apparel/overalls, 
suitable goggles, gloves, apron, gum boots etc. shall be made available to all concerned 
personnel; 
c. To deal with an accidental spillage of a corrosive substance on the body of a worker, the facility 
of eyewash fountain or water shower, as the  case may be, shall be installed, within the easy 
reach of the workplace. 
1.9.  Eye protection: 
a. Suitable personal protective equipment for the protection of eyes shall be provided and used 
by the building worker engaged in operations like welding, cutting,  chipping, grinding or 
similar operations which may cause hazard to his eyes; 
b. Goggles or face shield or welding screen with suitable shade of glass/filters etc shall be 
provided for the protection of the eyes. 
1.10. Overhead protection:  
a. It shall be ensured that at the building or other construction site, overhead protection is 
erected along the periphery of every building under construction that shall be of fifteen 
meters or more in height when completed; 
b. Overhead protection shall not be less than two meters wide and shall be erected at a height 
not more than five meters above the base of the building and the outer edge of such 
overhead protection shall be one hundred fifty millimeters higher than the inner edge 
thereof or shall be erected at an angle of not more  than twenty degrees to its horizontal 
sloping into the building; 
28  
  
c. It shall be also ensured that at the building and other construction work that any area 
exposed to risk of falling material, articles or objects is roped or cordoned off or otherwise 
suitably guarded from inadvertent entry of persons other than building workers at work in 
such area. 
1.11. Lifting and carrying of excessive weight:  
a. No building worker lifts by hand or carries overhead or over his back or shoulders any materials, 
articles, tools or appliances exceeding in weight the maximum limits as set out in the following 
table unless aided by any other building worker or a mechanical device; 
b. No worker aided by other workers, lift by hand or carry overhead or over their back or shoulders 
any m aterials, articles, tools or other appliances exceeding in weight the sum total of the 
maximum limits as prescribed in the concerned Rules, unless aided by a mechanical devices: 
1.12.   Protections against fall of persons –  
a. All scaffolds/working platforms at height of two metres or more shall be fenced; 
b. All guard-rails for the fencing of floor openings, gangways, elevated workplaces shall be made of 
sound material, good construction and possess adequate strength and be between 1 m and 1.5 
m above platform level, consist of two rails (two ropes or chains may be used if they are 
sufficiently taut) and supporting stanchions; 
c. Intermediate rails, ropes or chains shall be midway between the top and lower of edges of the 
top rail; 
d. Sufficient number of stanchions or standard poles or uprights shall be maintained to ensure the 
required stability and resistance; 
e. Guard-rails shall be free from sharp edges and be maintained in good repair; 
f.   Floor openings through which persons could fall, shall be guarded by covering or fencing; 
g. If the means of protection is removed to allow the passage of persons or goods or other purpose, 
the same shall be replaced as soon as possible, while making temporary arrangements for 
reasonable degree of safety in the meanwhile; 
h. Covers for floor opening shall be safe to walk on and if vehicles operate thereon it shall be safe 
for the same. This will require the contractor to have prior assessment of expected loads; 
i. Cover for floor opening shall be secured by hinges, grooves, stops or other eff ective means 
against sliding, falling down or lifting out or any other inadvertent displacement; 
j. Covers for any openings shall not constitute any hindrance to traffic and, as far as practicable, 
be flush with the floor; 
k. If covers constitute as grids, the bars shall be spread not more than 5 cm apart; 
l. Elevated workplaces at more than 2 m above the floor or ground shall be protected on all open 
sides by guardrails. It is commonly observed that fragile barricade tapes are used as a substitute 
of a strong and dependable fencing. This practice is prohibited. The barricade tapes can be used 
as markers/route guide only; 
m. Elevated workplaces shall be provided with safe means of access and egress such as stairs, ramps 
or ladders according to suitability; 
n. Persons employed at elevated workplaces or other situations at more than 2m from which they 
may fall, shall be protected by means of adequate safety nets, or platforms, or be secured by 
29  
  
safety belts with the lanyard properly anchored above the head level of the user. A ll possible 
effort shall be made to have strong and dependable mechanical arrangement. 
 
1.13.   Protection against fall of objects and materials: 
 
a. Materials and objects such as scaffolding materials, waste materials or tools shall not be thrown 
up or down from heights, as they are liable to cause injury; 
b. If materials and other objects cannot be safely lowered from heights, adequate precautions such 
as the provision of fencing, lookout men or barriers shall be provided to protect any person from 
injury.  
 
1.14.  Protection against entry of unauthorized persons: 
 
a. Construction zones in the site and built up areas alongside main traffic routes shall be 
barricaded; 
b. Unauthorized persons shall not be allowed access to construction sites and visitors shall be 
provided with the required protective equipment and it be ensured that they use them 
effectively. 
1.15. Head protection and other protection apparel: 
Every building worker who is required to – 
a. Pass through or working within the areas where there is hazard of his being struck by falling objects 
or materials, shall be provided with safety helmets of the type approved and tested in accordance 
with the national standards; 
b. Work in water or in wet concrete or in other similar work, shall be provided with suitable 
waterproof; 
c. Work in rain or in similar wet condition, shall be provided with waterproof coat with hat; 
d. Workers using or handling of alkalis, acid or other similar corrosive substances shall be provided 
with appropriate protective equipment in accordance with the approved standards; 
e. Every building worker engaged in handling sharp objects or materials at a building or other 
constriction work, which may cause hand injury, shall be provided with suitable hand gloves in 
accordance with the approved standards. 
1.16. Stability of structures:   
a. No wall, chimney or other structure or part of a structure shall be left unsupported in such 
condition that it may fall, collapse or weaken due to wind pressure, vibration or due to any 
other reason. Entry of persons into such locations where tall structures are being built shall 
be regulated without a let up. 
1.17. Safety of Structures and equipment and other safety concerns 
30  
  
a. Safety of structures like scaffoldings, platforms, gangways/walkways, towers, stairs, ladders, 
ramps, safety in excavation, formwork, falsework, demolition work, storage, handling and use of 
explosives, inflammable substances and hazardous materials, gas cutting and welding, use of 
electricity etc.; and equipment viz. construction machinery, crushers and batching plan t, boiler 
and other pressure vessels, transport and material handling equipment, lifting appliances, vehicles 
etc., shall be operated and  maintained as per approved norms and – 
i. They shall be made of sound material and of good construction, free from paten t defects, 
provided with adequate safe guards, properly maintained, periodically inspected and strong 
enough to withstand safely the loads and stresses to which they may be subjected; 
ii. They shall carry enough factor of safety bearing in mind that the possibility of their abuse, which 
otherwise shall be prevented by constant and adequate supervision, cannot be ruled out 
altogether; 
iii. It is incumbent on the contractor to ensure that only competent and authorized persons 
operate the equipment or attend to electri cal and mechanical systems and repair of faults or 
breakdowns etc. 
b. Working in the confined space may involve certain serious hazards. Strict adherence to the 
conditions of Permit-to-work issued for the purpose is required; 
c. Control of energy sources shall be ensured through Log-out/Tag-out practices. 
1.18. Slipping, tripping, cutting, drowning and falling hazards: 
a. The contractor shall keep all passageways, platforms and other places free from 
accumulations of dust, debris or similar material and from other obstructions that may cause 
tripping; 
b. Any sharp projections or protruding nails or similar projections which may cause any cutting 
hazard to a building workers shall be removed or otherwise made safe by taking suitable 
measures; 
c. No contractor shall allow any building worker at construction work to use the passageway, or 
a scaffold, platform or any other elevated working surface which is in slippery and dangerous 
condition and shall ensure that water, grease, oil or other similar substances which may cause 
the surface slippery, be removed or sanded/saw -dusted or covered with suitable material to 
make it safe from slipping hazard; 
d. Wherever building workers are exposed to the hazarded of falling into water, they shall be 
provided with rescuing arrangement from such hazard and if it is considered necessary, well 
equipped boat or launch manned with trained personnel shall be provided by the contractor 
at the site of such work; 
e. Every open side or opening into or through which a building worker, vehicle or lifting appliance 
or other equipments may fall at a building or other construction work shall be covered or 
guarded suitably to prevent such fall except where free access is necessary by reasons of their 
nature of the work; 
f. Wherever building workers are exposed to the hazards of falling from height while employed 
on such work they shall be provided by the employer with adequate equipment or means for 
31  
  
saving them from such hazards, Such equipments or means shall be in accordance with the 
standards as laid down; 
g. Whenever there is a possibility of falling of any martial, equipment or building worker at a 
construction site relating to a building or other construction work, adequate and suitable 
safety net shall be provided in accordance with the above stipulation; 
32  
  
2.0 SAFETY IN MATERIAL HANDLING AND WASTE DISPOSAL 
2.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
a. All building materials stored in tiers shall be stacked, racked, blocked, interlocked or otherwise 
secured safely to prevent sliding, falling or collapse and in an orderly manner to avoid obstruction 
of any passageway at the place of work. Piles of materials shall be stored or stacked in such a 
manner as to ensure their stability; 
b.  Maximum safe load limits of floors within buildings and structures in kg/cm 2 shall be 
conspicuously posted in all storage areas, except for floor or slab on gradient. Maximum safe load 
shall not be exceeded. Material or equipment shall not be stored upon any floor or platform in 
such quantity as to exceed its safe carrying capacity; 
c.  Ailes and passageways shall be kept clear to provide for the free and safe movement of material 
handling equipment or persons. Such areas shall be kept in good repair; 
d.  When a difference in road or working levels exist, means such as ramps, blocking or grading shall 
be used to ensure the safe movement of vehicles between two levels; 
e.  Material stored inside buildings under construction shall not be placed within 2 m of any hoist 
way or inside floor openings nor within 3.2 m of exterior wall which does no t extend above the 
top of material stored; 
f.  Persons employed required to work on stored material in silos, hoppers and similar storage areas 
shall be equipped with lifelines and safety belts; 
g.  Non-compatible materials shall be segregated in storage; 
h.  Bagged materials shall be stacked by stepping back the layers and cross-keeping the bags at least 
every 10 bags high; 
i.  Materials shall not be stored on scaffolds or runways in excess of supplies needed for immediate 
operations; 
j. Bricks stacks shall not be more than 2.2 m in height. When a loose brick stack reaches a height of 
1.3 m it shall be tampered back 5 cm in every foot of height above the 1.25 m level; 
k. When masonry blocks are stacked higher than 2 m, the stack shall be tapered back on half block 
per tier above the 2 m level; 
l. Material or equipment shall not be stored or placed so close to any edge of a floor or platform as 
to endanger the safety of persons below or working in the vicinity.  Where stacking, unshackling, 
stowing or unstaring of construction ma terial or article, or handling in connection therewith 
cannot be safely carried out unaided, reasonable measures to guard against accident or dangerous 
occurrences shall be taken by shoring or otherwise to prevent any danger likely to be caused by 
such handling; 
m. Stacking of material or article shall be made on firm foundation not liable to settle and such 
material or article and shall not overload the floor on which such stacking is made; 
33  
  
n. The material or articles shall not be stacked against partition or walls o f a warehouse or stores 
unless it is known that such partition or the wall is of sufficient strength to withstand the pressure 
of such materials or articles; 
o. The materials or articles shall not be stacked to such a height and in such a manner as would render 
the pile of such stack unstable and cause hazards to the building workers or the public in general; 
p. Where the building workers are on stack exceeding one point five meters in height, safe means of 
access to the stack shall be provided; 
q. All stacking or unshackling operations shall be performed under the supervision of a responsible 
person for such stacking or unstacking; 
r. The stacking of construction materials or articles shall not be made near the site of excavation, 
shaft, pit or any other such opening; 
s. Stacks that may lean heavily or become unstable or collapse are barricaded shall be avoided; 
t. Structural steel, poles, pipe, bar stock and other cylindrical materials, unless racked, shall be 
stacked and blocked so as to prevent sliding, spreading or tilting. 
2.2. LUMBER: 
a. Used lumber shall have all nails withdrawn before stacking; 
b. Lumber shall be stacked on level and solidly supported sills; 
c. Lumber piles shall not exceed 6 m in height provided that lumber is handled manually, shall not 
be stacked more than 5 m height; 
d. Lumber shall be so stacked as to be stable and self-supporting. 
2.3. STACKING OF CEMENT AND BAGS CONTAINING OTHER MATERIALS: 
a. The cement or other material in bags shall be stacked in a header and stature -wise in rows 
alternately in not more than 10 numbers and there will be circulation of space of at least 600 
mm in between two such rows; 
b. While removing bags from the stack pile the stability of such stack pile shall be ensured; 
c. Bags containing cement or lime shall be stored on a firm ground; 
d. The materials like bricks, tiles or blocks shall also be stored on a firm ground; 
e. Reinforcing steel shall be stored according to its shape, size and length and stack of reinforcing 
steel kept as low as possible; 
f. No pipe shall be stored on rack or in stack where such pipe is likely to fall by rolling; 
g. The angle of repose shall be maintained where loose materials are stacked; 
h. When dust laden material is to be stored or handled, measures shall be taken to suppress the 
dust produced by such storing or handling  and suitable personal protective equipment 
supplied to and used by the building workers working for such storing or handling. 
34  
  
2.4. DISPOSAL OF DEBRIS AND WASTE MATERIAL: 
a. It shall be ensured that debris is  
i. Handled and disposed of by a method, which doe s not cause danger to the safety of a 
person and not allowed to accumulate so as to constitute a hazard; 
ii. Kept sufficiently moist to bring down the dust under control; 
iii. Not thrown inside or outside from any height of such building or other construction work; 
b. Brought down by suitable means/chutes provided for the purpose and on completion of work, 
leftover building material, article or other substance or debris shall be disposed off as soon as 
possible to avoid any hazard to any traffic or person; 
c. Whenever materials are dropped more than 6 m to any point lying outside the exterior walls 
of the building an enclosed chute of wood, or equivalent material shall be used; 
d. When debris is dropped through holes in the floor without the use of chutes, the area where 
the material is dropped shall be completely enclosed with barricades not less than 1.1 m high 
and not less than 1.9 m back from the edge of the opening above. Signs warning of the hazard 
of falling material shall be posted at each level; 
e. All scrap lumber, waste material and rubbish shall be removed from the immediate work area 
as the work progresses; 
f. Disposal of waste material or debris as per the guideline issued by CPCB in compliance of Rule 
10 sub-rule 1(a) of C & D Waste Management Rules, 2016). 
g. All bio-degradable material shall be disposed off in the pit for making compost. Pellets can 
also be made from bio-degradable material 
h. All solvent wastes, oil rags and flammable liquids shall be kept in fire resistant covered 
containers until removed from the work site. 
2.5. HANDLING GAS CYLINDERS:  
a.  Gas cylinders shall not be lifted on bare slings. For lifting the cylinders, cage of suitable size 
shall be used and all cylinders shall be horizontally positioned in it. Such cage shall have fencing 
in such a way that there is no possibility of fall of cylinders from this cage. 
2.6. RIGGING EQUIPMENT FOR MATERIAL HANDLING: 
a. Rigging equipment for material handling shall be inspected prior to use in each shift as 
necessary during its use to ensure that it is safe. Defective rigging equipment shall be removed 
from service; 
b. Rigging equipment shall not be loaded in excess of its recommended safe working load, as 
prescribed in the Indian standards; 
c. Rigging equipment, when not in use, shall be removed from the immediate work area so as not 
to present a hazard to persons engaged in the area; 
35  
  
d. Special custom designed grabs, hooks, clamps, or other lifting accessories, for such units as 
modular panels, prefabricated structures and similar materials, shall be marked to indicate the 
safe working loads shall be proof tested prior to use 125% of their rated load; 
e.  Welded alloy steel chain slings shall have permanently affixed-durable identification standing 
size, grade, rated capacity and manufacturer.  
2.7.  FENCING OF MOTORS ETC 
a. All motors, cogwheels, chains and friction gearings, flywheels, shafting and the other 
dangerous and moving parts of machinery (whether or not driven by mechanical power) and 
steam pipes shall be securely fenced and the fencing of dangerous parts of machi nery not 
removed while such machinery is in motion or in use; 
b. No part of any machinery which is in motion and which is not securely fenced, shall be 
examined, lubricated, adjusted or repaired except by a person skilled and trained for such 
examination, lub rication, adjustment or repairs and machine parts cleaned only when such 
machine is stopped; 
c. When a machine is stopped for servicing or repairs, adequate measures shall be taken to ensure 
that such machine does not restart inadvertently and not only tag-out sign is required; it is also 
essential that an active system of isolating the power be applied. 
2.8. PROTECTION AGAINST LIGHTNING  
a. Where necessary, installations shall be protected against lightning, provided further that; 
b. No bare conductors or bare current-carrying parts of equipment be permitted to be installed unless 
adequate precautions are taken to prevent direct pr indirect contact; 
c. Only flame -proof equipment and conductors shall be installed at places where explosives  or 
inflammable substances are stored, handled or used or where explosive atmosphere exits; 
d. Persons competent and authorized only shall attend to electrical breakdowns and other 
operational faults and give or restore power to an equipment and such persons shall be easily 
identifiable by their dress or special helmet worn; 
e. It will constitute a standard practice to switch off portable tools while shifting from one place to 
another or while leaving them behind unattended; 
f. The contractor shall ensure that a system is in place to always keep tools well maintained. 
2.9. VEHICULAR TRAFFIC 
a. Whenever any building or other construction work is being carried on, or is located in close 
proximity to a road or any other place where any vehicular traffic may cause danger to  building 
workers, it shall be ensured that such building or other construction work is barricaded and suitable 
warning signs and lights displayed or erected to prevent such danger and if necessary, a request in 
writing made to the concerned authorities to control such traffic; 
36  
  
b. All vehicles used at construction site shall comply with the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 
1988 (59 of 1988) and the Rules made hereunder; 
c. The driver of a vehicle of any class or description operating at a construction site  shall hold a valid 
driving license under the Motor Vehicles Act. 1988 (59 of 1988).  
2.10. USE OF SAFETY BELT OR OTHER FALL ARREST SYSTEMS:  
Wherever any work at a height of 3  m or more is carried out, use of a suitable fall arrest system is 
mandatory if the workplace has already not been provided with an otherwise reliable means of 
protection for preventing the fall of persons from that height, provided further that:  
a. Safety belt, lanyard, life lines and devices for the attachment of such life lines shall  conform to   
the approved standards; 
b. Every building worker shall be supplied with safety belt and safety life lines for his protection and 
such building worker shall use such belts and life lines during the performance of his work; 
c. All building workers using safety belt and safety life lines shall have the knowledge of safe use and 
maintenance of such belts and life lines and shall be supplied with necessary instructions for its 
use; 
d. The responsible person for supervising the use of safety belts and safety lifelines shall inspect and 
ensure that such safety belts and lifelines are fit for use before taking them into use. 
2.11. SAFETY NET AND ITS USE 
a. Every safety net shall be of adequate strength, made of sound material and suitable for use 
and conform to the approved standards; 
b. The responsible person for maintenance of safety nets and their use shall ensure safe fixing of 
such safety nets and provide such safety nets with suitable and sufficient anchorage so that the 
purposes for which such safety net is intended for use is served; 
c. Use of multi-layer safety net to be ensured to avoid fall of material/objects. 
2.12. STORAGE OF SAFETY BELTS AND NETS, ETC:  
a. Proper arrangement shall be made for the safe storage of safety belts, safety lifelines and safety 
nets when they are not in use and are protected against mechanical damage, damages from 
chemicals and damages from biological agents. 
2.13. SAFETY HELMETS AND SAFETY FOOTWEAR  
a. The Engineer in-charge may declare whole or part of a site as the hardhat area and in  such an 
eventuality it shall be the responsibility of the contractor to provide safety helmet of the 
approved quality to all personnel engaged in construction and erection work, including the 
visitors to the site; 
b. Accordingly, wherever safety footwear is required for the safety of the personnel, the 
contractor shall provide the same of the approved type free of charge.  
 
37  
  
3.0 WELDING AND GAS CUTTING OPERATIONS 
 
3.1    GAS WELDING: 
3.1.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
a. All welders shall be provided with fire resistant protective clothing and equipment, such as fire 
resistant gauntlets and aprons, helmets and goggles with suitable filter lenses and its usage 
shall be ensured; 
b. The welders shall not be allowed to wear clothing that is not free from grease, oil and other 
flammable material; 
c. Adequate precautions shall be taken to protect persons working or passing near welding 
operations from dangerous sparks and radiation;  
d. When welding or cutting is being done on materials containing toxic or harmful substances or 
liable to  produce toxic or harmful fumes, adequate precautions shall be taken to protect 
workers from the fumes, either by 
i) Exhaust ventilation, or  
ii) Respiratory protective equipment; 
iii) Arrangement shall be made so that welding sparks do not fall down on the persons working 
below or material, which are combustible in nature and may be damaged with such sparks.  
e. The oxygen pressure for welding shall always be high enough to prevent acetyle ne flowing back 
into the oxygen cylinder; 
f. Acetylene shall not be used for welding at a pressure exceeding 1 atmosphere gauge; 
g. Adequate precautions shall be taken to prevent: 
i) Fire being stated by sparks, 
ii) Slag or hot metal; and 
iii) Damage to fibre ropes from heat, sparks, slag or hot metal; 
h. Precautions shall be taken to prevent flammable vapours and substances from entering the 
working area; 
 
3.2. WELDING AT PLACES WITH FIRE RISKS: 
 
a. Unless adequate precautions are taken, no welding or cutting operations shall be allowed near the 
place where combustible materials are stored, or near materials or plant where explosive or 
flammable dusts, gases or vapours are likely to be present or give n off. If hot work permit system 
exists at the site, the same shall be followed; 
b. Combustible materials and structures that cannot be removed from the vicinity of welding 
operations shall be shielded by asbestos or protected by other suitable means. 
 
3.3. WELDING IN CONFINED SPACE:  
When welding or cutting operations are being carried out in a confined space; 
a. Adequate ventilation, by means of exhaust fans or forced drought as the condition may require, 
shall be constantly provided; otherwise enough quantity of ai r shall be flown in by means of 
compressors to dilute the pollutants; 
38  
  
b. No blow pipe shall be left unattended inside a tank or vessel or other confined space during meal 
break or other interruption of the work; 
c. The worker shall take all necessary precautions  to prevent unburned combustible gas or oxygen 
from escaping inside a tank or vessel or other confined space; and 
d. When necessary to prevent danger, an attendant shall watch the welders from outside. 
 
3.4. WELDING ON CONTAINERS FOR EXPLOSIVE OR FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES: 
Welding or cutting operations on containers in which they are explosives or flammable 
substances shall not be allowed; 
i) Welding or cutting operations on any container that has held explosive or where 
flammable gases may have been generated, shall only be undertaken, 
ii) After the container has been thoroughly cleansed by steam or other effective means; and  
iii) Found by air tests to be completely free from combustible gases and vapours; or 
iv) After the combustible gas in the container has been completely re placed by an inert gas 
or by water; 
v) If an inert gas is used as laid down in clause 4.2.3, after the vessel has been filled with 
gas, the gas shall continue to flow slowly into it thorough out the welding or cutting 
operations; 
vi) Before starting any welding operations on, or otherwise applying heat to, closed or 
jacketed containers or other hollow parts, such containers or parts shall be adequately 
vented in suitable manner. 
3.5. GAS CYLINDERS 
a. Gas cylinders shall be inspected, stored, handled and transported in co nformity with the 
requirements of Gas Cylinders Rules, 1981; 
b. When in use, cylinders shall be held in upright positions by straps, collars or chains; 
c. Devices referred to in clause 6.2 shall be such that the cylinders can be rapidly removed in an 
emergency; 
d. Welders shall not temper with or attempt to repair safety devices and valves on gas cylinders; 
e. When acetylene cylinders are coupled, flash back arrestor shall be inserted between the cylinder 
and the coupler block, or between the coupler bock and the regulator; 
f.   Only acetylene cylinders or approximately equal pressure shall be coupled; 
g. No gas shall be taken from a cylinder unless a pressure reducing regulator has been attached to 
the valve; 
h. Only the right pressure reducing regulator shall be used for the gas in the cylinder; 
i.   Cylinder valves shall be kept free from gases, grease, oil, dusts and dirt; 
j.   Leaky cylinders charged with acetylene or liquefied fuel gas shall be taken into the open air at a 
safe distance from any open flame or sparks. 
3.6 HOSE 
a. Only hose especially designed for welding and cutting operations shall be used to connect an oxy-
acetylene torch to gas outlet; 
b. Hose lines for oxygen and for oxy-acetylene shall be of different colours and preferably of different 
size; 
c. Hose connections shall be s ufficiently light to withstand without leakage a pressure twice thee 
maximum delivery pressure of the pressure regulators in the system; 
39  
  
d. Care shall be taken that hose does not become kinked or tangled, stepped on or run -over or 
otherwise damaged; 
e. Any length of hose in which a flashback has burned, shall be discarded; 
f. No hose with more than one gas passage shall be used; 
g. Only soapy water shall be used for testing hose for leaks. 
 
3.7. TROCHES 
a. When torches are being changed, the gases shall be shut off at the  pressure reducing regulators 
and not by crimping hose; 
b. Torches shall be lit with friction lighters or other safe source but not with matches. 
c. Electric welding equipment: 
d. Welding machines shall be controlled by a switch mounted on or near the machine framework that, 
when opened, immediately cuts off the power from all conductors supplying the machine; 
e. Welding circuit shall be so designed as to prevent the transmission of high potential from the source 
of supply to the welding electrodes; 
f. The maximum open circuit voltage shall be in accordance with Indian Standards; 
g. Electrode conductors or cables shall not be excessive in length and shall not be longer that 
necessary to perform the work; 
h. Return conductors shall be taken directly to work and securely connected  mechanically and 
electrically to it or to the work bench, floor etc. and to an adjacent metallic object; 
i. Cable shall be supported so as not to create dangerous obstruction; 
j. Motors, generators, rectifiers and transformers in arc welding or cutting machines, and all current 
carrying parts, shall be protected against accidental contact with uninsulated live parts; 
k. Ventilating slots in transformer enclosures shall be so designed that no live part is accessible 
through any slot; 
l. Frames of arc welding machines shall be effectively earthed; 
m. In hand-operated arc welding machines, cables and cable connectors used in arc welding circuits 
shall be effectively insulated on the supply side; 
n. The outer surface electrode holders of hand -operated arc welding machines, including the jaw so 
far as practicable, shall be effectively insulated; 
o. Electrode holders of hand -operated arc-welding machines shall, if practicable, be provided with 
discs or shields to protect the operator’s hands from the heat of the arcs; 
p. Only heavy-duty cable with unbroken insulation shall be used; 
q. Circuit connections shall be waterproof; 
r. When lengths of cable have to be joined, only insulated connectors shall be used on the earth line 
and the electrode holder line; 
s. Connections to welding terminals shall be made at distribution boxes, socket outlets, etc. by bolted 
joints; 
t. Welding terminals shall be adequately protected against accidental contact by enclosures, covers 
or other effective means; 
u. Electrode holder shall 
i. Have adequate current capacity; 
              ii. Be adequately insulated to prevent shock, short-circuiting or flashovers. 
 
40  
  
3.8. OPERATIONS 
a. Arc welding and cutting operations that are carried on at places where persons other than the 
welders are working or passing shall be enclosed by means of suitable stationary or mobile screens; 
b. Walls and screens of both permanent and temporary protective enclosures shall be provided to 
absorb harmful rays from the welding equipment and prevent reflection, and if necessary, be 
painted or otherwise treated for the purpose; 
c. When arc welding is done in damp confined spaces;  
i) Electrode holders shall be completely insulated; and  
ii) The welding machines shall be outside the confined space; 
d. Welders shall take adequate precautions 
i) To prevent any part of their body from completing an electric circuit 
ii) To prevent contact between any part of the body and the exposed part of the electrode, or 
electrode when in contact with metal; and 
iii) To prevent wet or damaged clothing, gloves and boots from touching any live part; 
e. Welding circuits shall be switched off when not in use; 
f. Electrodes shall only be inserted in the holder with insulating means such as insulating gloves; 
g. Electrode and return leads shall be adequately protected against damage; 
h. Live parts of electrode holders shall be inaccessible when they are not in use; 
i.   Electric arc-welding equipment shall not be left unattended with current switched on. 
41  
  
4.0 SAFETY IN THE USE OF ELECTRICITY 
4.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS 
a. Before commencement of any building or other construction  work, adequate measures shall be 
taken to prevent any worker from coming into physical contact with any electrical equipment or 
apparatus, machines or live electrical circuit which may cause electrical hazard during the course 
of his employment and suitab le warning signs shall be displayed and maintained at conspicuous 
places in Hindi and in local language understood by the majority of the building workers; 
b. In workplaces where the exact location of underground electric power line is not known, the 
building workers using jack hammers, crow bars or other hand tools which may come in contact 
with a live electrical line shall be provided with approved insulated protective gloves and footwear; 
c. As far as practicable, no wiring or cable, which may come in contact with water or which may be 
mechanically damaged or which may result in electric shock shall be left on ground or; 
d. All electrical appliances and current carrying equipment used shall be made of sound material and 
adequately earthed; 
e. All temporary electrical installations shall be provided with earth leakage circuit breakers; 
f. It is required that all portable power- driven hand tools are provided with double insulation to 
secure a high degree of protection from electrical hazards; 
g. Electrical installations shall comply with the requirements of any law for the time being in force, 
especially the Indian Electricity Act/Rules in particular with specific reference to the following: 
i) All parts of installations shall be of standard construction not lower, from the safet y point of 
view, than the national standards, as applicable. All parts of electrical installations shall be so 
constructed, installed and maintained so as to prevent electrical fires, explosion and shock; 
ii) Earthing of metal work of electrical equipment, other than the parts which carry current, shall 
be provided and will conform to Electricity Act and IS: 3042 –  1966 (code of practice for 
earthing); 
h. All parts of electrical installation shall be adequate size and characteristics for the work they may 
be called upon to do and in particular they shall: 
i) Be of adequate mechanical strength to withstand working conditions in construction 
operations; and 
ii) Be not liable to damage by water, dust or electrical, thermal or chemical action to which they 
me subjected to in construction operations; 
i. All parts of electrical installations shall be so constructed, installed and maintained as to prevent 
the danger of electric shock; fire and external explosion; 
j. It shall be made impossible for circuit breakers to be opened or closed inadvertently, by gravity or 
by mechanical impact; 
42  
  
k. Before operation of OCBs, oil level must be checked and the event of short, extra quantity must be 
filled; 
l. Use of rubber gloves and rubber gum boots of tested quality where electric shock is likely to occur 
shall be provided, but these shall not be considered as providing adequate protection against the 
risk of electric shock in lieu of inbuilt safety arrangement in the system; 
m. First-aid boxes, instruction for restoration of persons affected by electric shock shall be made; 
n. Arrangement shall be made for sufficient number of CO 2/chemical powder type fire 
extinguishers/sand buckets etc.; 
o. No electrical circuits shall ever be overloaded to the dangerous extent or beyond the rated capacity; 
p. In confined areas, only 24 volt supply shall be used for every equipment, including hand -held 
portable tools and hand lamps; 
q. All electrical appliances and outlets shall be clearly marked to indicate their purpose and voltage. 
4.2. FUSES 
a. Fuses shall bear markings indicating their rated current, whether they are of the fast or slow -
breaking type and, as far as practicable, and their rated breaking capacity. Fuses as per need 
and of correct rating shall be used in the circuit; 
b. Effective measures shall be taken to ensure that persons removing or inserting fuses will not 
be endangered, in particular by any adjacent live parts; 
c. In case of blow of fuses only after finding out and correcting of the fault, new fuses shall be 
provided in the circuit. 
4.3. SWITCHES 
a. All switches shall be of enclosed type and so installed and earthed as to prevent danger in their 
operation; 
b. Use of switches, which may connect or disconnect circuit through gravity, shall not be used. 
4.4. MOTORS 
a. All motors shall be equipped with a switch; 
b. When a motor can be cut off from more than one place, where practicable, a stopping device 
shall be installed in the immediate vicinity of the motor;  
c. Motors shall be so installed as to ensure that they can be adequately cooled; 
d. Motors shall be effectively protected against over current; 
e. Whenever the motors installed are in the open area where there is the possibility of fall of 
liquid corrosives or otherwise, it shall be suitably protected with covering; 
f. Earthing shall be connected to all motors, generators etc. as prescribed in the Indian Electricity 
Rules, amended from time to time. 
4.5. CONNECTIONS 
a. At points where conductors are joined, branched or led into apparatus, they shall be: 
i. Mechanically protected, and  
ii. Properly maintained; 
43  
  
b. Conductors shall be joined,  branched or led into an apparatus through junction boxes, 
bushings, glands or equivalent connecting devices; 
c. Junction boxes or plug -out-socket couplings shall be used for joining cables wherever 
practicable; 
d. When parts of conductors are joined together, or conductors are joined to one another or to 
an apparatus, the attachment shall be made by screwing, clamping, soldering, riveting, brazing, 
crimping, or equivalent means. Loose connections shall not be provided in any case; 
e. Cable joints, junction boxes a nd connectors shall be protected as far as practicable, against 
traffic, fall of ground, water and other sources of damage; 
f. Whenever armoured cables are joined, the junction boxes shall be bridged by a suitably 
conducive bond between the armouring of the cables. 
4.6. TRANSPORTABLE AND PORTABLE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT: 
a. The supply of electricity to portable apparatus shall not exceed 250v; 
b. Hand-held and portable machines shall be equipped with a built-in switch to switch off power 
in case of emergency; 
c. Hand-held electrically operated tools shall be provided with built -in switch to disconnect the 
circuit when the tool is not being used; 
d. Portable electrical tools, unless flameproof, shall not be used in flammable or explosive 
atmosphere; 
e. Only three -core cable shall be used for single -phase operated tools with the third core 
connected to earth 
4.7. HAND LAMPS 
a. Hand lamps shall be equipped with strong cover of glass or other transparent material; 
b. Portable lamp holders shall have: 
i) All current –carrying part s enclosed; 
ii) Insulated handle; and 
iii) They shall operate at 24 v; 
4.8. INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE 
a. All electrical equipment shall be inspected before it is taken into use to ensure that it is suitable 
for its purpose of use; 
b. At the beginning of every shift every person using electrical equipment shall make a careful 
external examination of the equipment and conductors for which he is responsible, especially 
flexible cables; 
44  
  
c. Periodic inspections, testing, maintenance of all electrical equipment is to be made and record 
of test of transformer oil and pit earthing shall be maintained; 
d. Electrical conductors and equipment shall be repaired by the electrician only as far as 
practicable, no work shall be done live conductors or equipment; 
e. Before any work is begun on conductors or equipment that does not have to remain live; 
i) The current shall be switched off; 
ii) Adequate precautions shall be taken to prevent the current from being switched on 
again; 
iii) The conductors or the equipment shall be tested to ascertain that they are dead; 
iv) The conductor and equipment shall be earthed and short-circuited; and 
v) Neighbouring live parts shall be adequately protected against accidental contact; 
f. After work on conductors and equipment, the current shall only be switched on again on the 
orders of a competent person; 
g. Electricians shall be provided with adequate tools, and person protective equipment, such as 
rubber gloves, mats etc.; 
h. All conductors and equipment shall be considered to live unless there is certain proof to the 
contrary. 
4.9. WORK IN THE VICINITY OF ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION                                                                                                    
a. When work is to be done in the neighborhood of electrical conductors or installations, the 
contractor shall ascertain the voltage carried and the works shall not be allowed to reach to 
unsafe distance from them; 
b. When any excavation is to be made or any bore -holed sunk, the contractor shall ascertain 
whether there are any underground conductors, in or in dangerous proximity to, the zone of 
operations; 
c. No work shall be done in dangerous proximity to a conductor or an installation until it has been 
made dead; 
d. Before work begins, work permit shall be obtained from the Engineer in-charge if live electricity 
lines/circuit are passing in close vicinity; 
e. Before the current is restored, the contractor shall ensure that no work remain on the work 
site; 
f. If conductor or an installation in the neighbourhood of which work is io be done can not be 
made dead, special precautions shall be taken and special instructions given to the workers so 
as to prevent danger by adequately enclosing or fencing; 
g. If mobile equipment has to be employed in the neighbourhood of conductors or installations 
that cannot be made dead, its movement shall be so controlled as to keep it as a safe distance 
from them. 
45  
  
5.0 SAFETY IN THE USE OF HAND TOOLS AND POWER-OPERATED TOOLS 
5.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
a. All hands and power tools and similar equipment, shall be maintained in safe condition. 
b. When power operated tools are designed to accommodate guards, they shall be equipped with 
such guards, when in use; 
c. Belts, gears, shafts, pulleys, sprockets, spindles, drums, fly wheels, chains and other reciprocating, 
rotating or moving parts of the equipment shall be similarly guarded; 
d. Personnel using hand and power tools and exposed to the hazard of falling, flying, abrasive, and 
splashing objects, or exposed to harmful dusts, fumes, mists, vapours, or gases shall be provided 
with the particular personal protective equipment necessary to protect them from the hazards; 
e. All hand -held powered platen sanders, grinders, grinders with wheels of 5 cm or less, routers, 
planers, laminate trimmers, nibblers, shears, scroll saws and jigsaws with blade shanks of 0.5 cm 
wide or less shall be equipped with only a positive on-off control. 
f. All hand-held powered drills, tappers, fastener drivers, horizontal, vertical or angle grinders with 
wheels greater than 5 cm in diameter, disc sanders, belt sanders, reciprocating saws, saber saws 
and other operating powered tools shall b e equipped with a momentary contact on control 
provided that turnoff can be accomplished by a single motion of the same finger or fingers that 
turn it on.  
5.2. HAND TOOLS 
a. The contractor shall not issue or permit the use of unsafe hand tools; 
b. Wrenches including adjustable pipe end and socket wrenches shall not be used when saws are 
sprung to the point that slippage occurs; 
c. Impact tools such as drift pins, wedges and chisels shall be kept free of mushroomed heads; 
d. The wooden handles of tools shall be kept free of splinters or cracks and shall be kept tight on the 
tools. 
5.3. POWER OPERATED TOOLS 
a. Electric power operated tools shall be either of the approved double -insulated type or shall be 
grounded; 
b. The use of electric cords for hoisting or lowering loads shall not be permitted; 
c. Pneumatic power tools shall be secured to the hose or whip by some positive means to prevent the 
tool from becoming accidentally disconnected; 
d. Safety clips or retainers shall be securely installed or maintained on pneumatic impact (percussion) 
tools to prevent attachments from being accidentally expelled; 
e. All pneumatically riveting machine staplers and other similar equipment provided with automatic 
fastener feed, which operate at more than 7 kg/cm 2 pressure at the tool a safety devi ce on the 
46  
  
muzzle to prevent the tool from ejecting the fasteners unless the muzzle is in contact with the work 
surface; 
f. Compressed air shall not be used for cleaning purposes except when the pressure is reduced to less 
than 2 kg/cm2 and that too with effective chip guarding. The 2 kg/cm2 pressure requirement does 
not apply to concrete form, mill scale and similar cleaning purposes; 
g. The manufacturer’s safe operating for hoses, pipes, valves, filters and other fittings shall not be 
exceeded; 
h. Only personnel wh o has been trained in the operation of the particular tool shall be allowed to 
operate power-actuated tools; 
i. The tool shall be tested each day before loading to see that the safety devices are in proper working 
condition. The method of testing shall be acc ordance with the manufacturer’s recommended 
procedure; 
j. Any tool found not in proper working order, or that which develops a defect during use, shall be 
immediately removed from service and not used until properly repaired; 
k. Tools shall not be loaded until just prior to the intended firing time. Neither loaded nor empty tools 
are to be pointed at any other person. Hands shall be kept clear of the open barrel end; 
l. Loaded tools shall not be left unattended; 
m. Fasteners shall not be driven into very hard or brittl e materials including, but not limited to, cast 
iron, glazed tiles, surface hardened steel, glass block, live rock, face brick or hollow tiles; 
n. Driving into materials that can be easily penetrated shall be avoided unless backed by a substance 
that will prevent the pin or fastener from passing completely through and creating a flying missile 
hazard on the other side; 
o. No fastener shall be driven into a palled area caused by an unsatisfactory fastening; 
p. Only non-sparking tools shall be used in an explosive or flammable atmosphere; 
q. All tools shall be used with the correct shield, guard or attachment as recommended by thee 
manufacturer.  
5.4. ABRASIVE WHEELS AND TOOLS 
a. All grinding machines shall be supplied with sufficient power to maintain the spindle speed at 
safe levels under all conditions of normal operation; 
b. Grinding machines shall be equipped with suitable safety guards; 
c. The maximum angular exposure of the grinding wheel periphery and sides shall not be more 
than 900, except that when the work requires con tact with the wheel below the horizontal 
plane of the spindle, the angular exposure shall not exceed 120 0. In either case, the exposure 
shall begin not more than 650 above the horizontal plane of the spindle. Safety guards shall be 
strong enough to withstand the bursting of the wheel; 
d. Floor and bench -mounted grinders shall be work -rests, which shall be rigidly supported and 
readily adjustable. Such work -rests shall be  kept at a distance not to exceed 5 mm from the 
surface of the wheel; 
47  
  
e. Cup type wheels used for external grinding shall be protected by either revolving cup guard or 
a band type guard; 
f. When safety guards are required, they shall be mounted as to maintain proper alignment with 
the wheel and the guard and the guard and its fastening shall be adequate strength to retain 
the fragments of the wheel in case of accidental breakage. The maximum angular exposure of 
the grinding wheel periphery and sides shall not exceed 1800; 
g. Portable abrasive wheel used for internal grinding shall be provided with suitable safety 
flanges; 
h. When safety flanges are required, they shall be used only with wheels designed to fit the 
flanges. Only safety flanges, of a type and design and pr operly assembled so as to ensure that 
the pieces of the wheel will be retained in case of accidental breakage, shall be used; 
i. All abrasive wheels shall be closely inspected and ring tested before mounting to ensure that 
they are free from cracks or defects; 
j. Grinding wheels shall fit freely on the spindle and shall not be forced on. The spindle nut shall 
be tightened only enough to hold the wheel in place; 
k. All employees using abrasive wheels shall be protected by suitable eye protection equipment. 
5.5. WOODWORKING TOOLS 
a. All fixed power driven woodworking tools shall be provided with a disconnect switch that can 
either be locked or tagged in the off-position; 
b. The operating speed shall be attached or otherwise permanently marked on all circular saws 
over 0.5 m in diameter or operating at over 3000 peripheral rpm. Any saw so marked shall not 
be operated at a speed other than that marked on the blade. When a marked saw is 
retensioned for a different speed, the marking shall be corrected to show the new speed; 
c. Automatic feeding devices shall be installed on machines wherever the nature of the work will 
permit. Feeder attachments shall have the feed rolls or other moving parts covered or guarded 
so as to protect the operator from hazardous points; 
d. All portable power driven circular saws shall be equipped with guards above and below the 
base plate or shoe. The upper guard shall cover the saw to the depth of the teeth, except for 
the minimum arc required to permit the base to be tilted for bevel cuts. The lower guard shall 
cover the saw to the depth of the teeth, except for the minimum arc required to allow proper 
retraction and contact with the work. When the tool is withdrawn from the work, the lower 
guard shall automatically and instantly return to the covering position.   
48  
  
6.0 SAFETY IN THE USE OF LADDERS AND STAIRS 
6.1. GENERAL ASPECTS OF SAFETY RELATED TO USE OF LADDERS  
a. Every ladder or step -ladder used in building or other construction work shall be of good 
construction, made of sound material and of adequate strength for the purpose for which such 
ladder or step-ladder is used; 
b. When a ladder is used as a means of communication, such ladder shall be lashed to a fixed structure 
so that while working on such ladder it does not slip; 
c. A ladder or step ladder shall not stand on loose bricks or other loose packing and have a level and 
firm footing; 
d. No ladder shall be used which has a missing or defective rungs or rungs, which depend for support 
solely on nails, spikes or other similar fixing.  
6.2. MATERIALS FOR LADDERS 
a. Shall be constructed with upright of adequate strength and are made of straight -grained wood, 
free from defects and having the grain of such wood running length wise; 
b. Shall have rungs made of straight-grained wood free for defects and mortised or securely notched 
into the upright, reinforcing metal ties, if wedges shall not secure the tenors of such ladders; 
c. Where it is required, in case of use of fixed ladders, sufficient foot -hold and hand -hold shall be 
provided for use by the building worker; 
d. Every ladder shall be -   
i. Secured so as to prevent undue swaying; 
ii. Equally and properly supported on each of its upright; 
iii. So used as not to cause undue sagging; and 
iv. Placed as nearly as possible at an inclination of four in one; 
e. The use of all ladders and stepladders shall conform to the approved standards; 
f. Wooden ladders shall be constructed with uprights of adequate strength as well as rungs made of 
wood free from visible defects and having the grains of the wood in the ladders running lengthwise 
and rungs mortised or rebutted into the uprights; 
g. Uprights and rungs of metal ladders shall have a cross -section adequate to prevent dangerous 
deflection, shall be equal and not less than 25 cm or more than 35 cm; 
h. Rungs of metal ladders shall be kept clean so as to prevent them from becoming slippery; 
i. Portable ladders shall not exceed 9 m in length; 
j. Every ladder or run of ladders rising to a height exceeding 9 m shall be provided with an 
intermediate landing, providing further that the intervals between landings sh all not exceed 9 m. 
The landings shall be of suitable size and protected by railings; 
k. Defective ladders that cannot be satisfactorily repaired shall be tagged Not Fit For Use and 
destroyed; 
l. Wooden ladders shall not be painted, but oiled or covered with clean varnish or other transparent 
preservatives; 
m. Metal ladders shall be protected against corrosion by being coated with rust-proof paint or by other 
means unless they are made of non-corrosive metals; 
49  
  
n. Every ladder shall rise at least 1 m above the highest p oint to be reached and have one of the 
uprights continued to that height to serve as a hand-rail at the top; 
o. Ladders shall not stand on loose bricks or other loose packing but have a level and firm footing so 
that they are equally supported on each upright; 
p. Every ladder shall be securely fixed so that it cannot move from its top and bottom points of rest 
and if it cannot be secured at the top, it shall be securely fastened at the base and if fastening at 
the top is also impracticable, it shall have a man stationed at the foot holding the end to prevent it 
from slipping; 
q. Where a run of two or more ladders connects different floors, the ladders shall be staggered and a 
protective landing with the smallest practicable opening shall be provided at each floor; 
r. A ladder having only one upright or a missing or dangerously defective rung shall not be used; 
s. When a ladder is placed in position, the distance between the foot of a ladder and the base of the 
structure against which it rests shall be about one-quarter of its length; 
t. Workers using ladders shall leave at least one hand free for climbing up and down, face the ladder, 
avoid wearing slippery footwear and avoid carrying heavy or bulky loads; 
u. A ladder shall not be placed in front of a door that opens towards it un less the door is fastened or 
locked or guarded; 
v. A ladder shall not be placed against a window frame unless the ladder is fitted with a board at the 
top so that the applied load is safely distributed over the frame; 
w. Metal ladders shall not be used in the vicinity of live electrical equipment; 
x. Adequate means shall be provided to prevent displacement of the ladder set up in public 
thoroughfare or where persons, vehicles etc. may accidentally collide with it.  
 
6.3. PORTABLE STEPLADDERS 
 
a. The length of portable stepladders shall not exceed 6 m and their back legs shall be adequately 
braced; 
b. Stepladders exceeding 1.5 m in length shall have two or more cross-ties; 
c. The spread between the front and back legs shall be restricted by means of hinged metal flat 
bars or high-grade fibre or other effective means; 
d. When in the open position, treads of stepladders shall be horizontal. 
 
6.4. PORTABLE TRESTLE LADDERS  
a. The height of the trestle ladders shall not exceed 5.5 m; 
b. The spread between the front and back legs shall be restricted by means of hinged metal flat bars 
or high-grade fibre or other effective means; 
c. The front and back legs shall be joined at the top by bolted steel hinges of adequate dimensions or 
other effective means; 
d. Both legs of trestle ladders shall be equipped with sufficient number of steel crossties. 
6.5. EXTENSION LADDERS  
a. The length of extension ladders shall not exceed 15 m; 
b. Extension ladders shall be equipped with an effective lock and guide brackets by which the ladder 
can be extended, retracted or locked in any position; 
50 
c. The rungs of overlapping sections shall coincide so as to form double treads and shall be equipped
with one or more extension ropes;
d. Extension ropes shall be securely anchored and run over suitable pulleys.
6.6 MECHANICAL LADDERS 
a. Mechanical ladder is that ladder, which is a mechanically extendable ladder, mounted on a wheeled 
frame;
b. Mechanical ladder shall be equipped with guard -rails and toe -boards and a cage of heavy- gauge
steel mesh;
c. If mechanical ladder has no railed platform or cage, workers using it shall be secured by suitable
safety belt;
d. Mechanical ladders shall not be moved, while a person is on them, unless they have speciall y
designed to ensure that perfect stability is maintained during movement.
6.7. FIXED LADDERS 
a. Uprights of fixed ladders shall be at least 40 cm and shall be set an angle of 150 to the vertical;
b. Clearance at the back of the rungs shall be at least 15 cm and no obstruction within 75 cm of the
face of the ladder;
c. There shall be at least 7.5 cm clearance between the ladder and the nearest fixed object;
d. When it is necessary for a ladder to pass closely through a hole in a platform or a floor, the edges
of the hole shall be padded so as to prevent injury to the users;
e. The length of the runs of fixed ladder shall not exceed 9 m;
f. Landing platform shall be provided for each 9 m or fraction thereof;
g. As far as practicable, runs shall be staggered;
h. Runs from which a person could fall from more than 6 m shall be enclosed in a cage of heavy-gauge
mesh or hoops;
i. Fixed ladders shall be firmly bolted or welded in position.
6.8. STAIRS 
a. Stairs shall be of adequate strength to withstand safely the loads that they will have to carry;
b. Stairs used for the purpose of construction work shall have a clear width of at least 60 cm;
c. Stairs made of perforated material shall not have openings exceeding 1.2 cm in width;
d. No step of a stairway shall depend for its support solely on nails, spikes, screws or other similar
fixing;
e. No stairway with missing or dangerously defective steps shall be used;
f. Every stairway that is at an angle of less than 300 from the vertical shall be provided with a secure
handhold at the top landing place, either by extending one upright for at least 1 m or by othe r
effective means;
g. Movable and removable stairs shall be adequately secured in the position of use;
h. In all building structures permanent stairs shall be constructed as soon as practicable;
i. When work on a building has progressed to a height of more than 18 m above the ground and it
has not been practical to construct the permanent stairs, sufficient number of stairs shall be
provided to ensure safe access to the working levels.
51  
  
7.0 SAFETY IN THE USE OF LIFTING APPLIANCES & GEARS 
7.1. CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF LIFTING APPLIANCES:  
      All lifting appliances, including their parts and working gear, whether fixed or movable, and any plant 
or gear used in anchoring or fixing of such appliances -  
a. Shall be of sound construction, sound material, and of adequate strength to serve the purpose for 
which these are to be used and all such appliances shall be free from patent defects, and 
b. Maintained in good repair and working condition; 
c. Every drum or pulley around which the rope of any lifting appliance is carried, shall be of adequate 
diameter and sound construction in relation to such rope; 
i. Any rope that terminates at the winding drum of lifting appliance shall be securely attached 
to such drum and at least three dead turns of such rope remain on such drum in every 
operating position of such lifting appliance; 
ii. The flange of a drum projects twice the rope diameter beyond the last layer of such rope and 
if such rope and if such projection is not available, other measures like anti-slackness guards 
shall be provided to prevent such rope from coming off such drum; 
d. Every lifting appliance shall be provided with adequate and efficient brakes which shall be:  
i) Capable of preventing fall of suspended load (including any test load), 
ii) Effectively controlling such load while it is being lowered, acting with out shock and shall be 
attached with shoes that can be easily removed for running and which shall be simple and 
have easily accessible means of adjustment; 
e. Provided that nothing contained above shall apply to steam -winch that can be operated as safely 
as with brakes. 
7.2. CONTROLS OF EVERY LIFTING APPLIANCE SHALL BE SO; 
a. Situated that the driver of such appliance at his stand or seat has ample room for operating and 
has an unrestricted view of building or other construction work, as far as practicable, and t hat he 
remains clear of the load and the ropes, and that no load passes over him; 
b. Positioned with due regard to ergonomic considerations for proper operation of such appliance; 
c. Located that the driver of such appliance remains above the appliance and shall  have upon them 
or adjacent to them clear markings to indicate their purpose and mode of operations; 
d. Provided, where necessary, with a suitable locking device to prevent accidental movement or 
displacement and shall move, as far as practicable, in the direction of the resultant load movement; 
e. Wherever automatic brakes are provided, they shall automatically come to the neutral position in 
case of power failure. 
7.3. TEST AND PERIODICAL EXAMINATION 
      7.3.1 Test: all lifting appliances including all parts and gears thereof, whether fixed or movable, shall be 
tested and examined by a competent person before being taken into use for the first time or after it 
52  
  
has undergone any alteration or repairs liable to affect its strength or stability or after erection on a 
site and also once at least in every five years, in the manner as specified; 
7.3.2. Examination: all lifting appliances shall be thoroughly examined by a competent person at least in 
every twelve months and where the competent person making such examination forms the opinion 
that the lifting appliance cannot continue to function safely, he shall forthwith give notice in writing of 
his opinion to the contractor. 
7.4. AUTOMATIC LOAD INDICATOR 
a. Cut-out shall be p rovided which automatically arrests the movement of the lifting   parts of 
every crane if the load exceeds the safe working load, wherever possible; 
b. Wherever the above provisions cannot be applied and if it is not possible to install an automatic 
safe load indicator, in that case, provision of a table showing the safe working loads at the 
corresponding inclinations or radii of the jib on the crane shall be considered sufficient. 
7.5. INSTALLATION:  
Fixed lifting appliances shall be installed by a competent person in a manner that 
a. Such appliances cannot be displaced by the load, vibration or other influences; 
b. The operator of such appliance is not exposed to danger from loads, ropes or drums; 
c. The operator can either see over the zone of operation or communicat e with all loading and 
unloading points by signal, or other communication system; 
d. Adequate clearance is provided between parts or loads of lifting appliances and between the 
fixed objects such as walls and posts, or electrical conductors; 
e. The lifting appliances; when exposed to wind loading, are given sufficient additional strength, 
stability and rigidity to withstand such loading safely; 
f. No structural alterations or repairs are made on any part of the lifting appliances that affect 
the safety of such appliances without obtaining the opinion of the competent person to this 
effect.  
7.6. WINCHES 
a. Winches shall not be used if their control levers operate with excessive friction or play; 
b. Double gear winches shall not be used unless a positive means of locking the gearshift is 
provided; 
c. There shall be no load other than the fall and the hook assembly on the winch while changing 
gears on a two-gear winch; 
d. Adequate protection shall be provided to the winch operator against abnormal weather; 
53  
  
e. Temporary seats or shelters for winch operators that may pose hazard to the winch operator 
or any other building workers shall not be allowed to be used; 
f. Control levers shall be secured in the neutral position and, whenever possible, the power shall 
shut off if the winch is left unattended. 
7.7. IN USE OF EVERY STEAM-WINCH  
a. Measures shall be taken to prevent escaping steam from obscuring any part of the construction 
site or other workplace or from otherwise hindering or injuring any building worker; 
b. Extension control levers which tend to fall off their own weight shall be counter-balanced; 
c. Winch operators shall not be permitted to use the which control ex tension levers except for 
short handles on wheel type controls and that such levers shall be of adequate strength, secure 
and fastened with metal connections at the fulcrum and at the permanent control lever; 
d. In use of every electric winch, no building worker shall be permitted to transfer, alter or adjust 
electric control circuits in case of any defect in such winch; 
7.8. ELECTRIC WINCHES SHALL NOT BE USED FOR BUILDING WORK WHERE 
a. The electromagnetic brake is unable to hold the load; or 
b. One or more control points either hoisting or lowering are not operating properly. 
7.9. BUCKETS:  
       It shall be ensured that tip-up buckets are equipped with a device that effectively prevents accidental 
tipping. 
7.10. IDENTIFICATION AND MARKING OF SAFE WORKING LOAD: 
a. Every lifting appliance and loose gear shall be clearly marked for its safe working load and 
identification by stamping or other suitable means; 
b.  Every derrick (other than derrick crane) shall be clearly marked for its safe working load when such 
derrick is used either in single purchase with lower block or in union purchases in all possible block 
positions; 
c. The lowest angle to the horizontal, to which the derrick may be used, shall be legibly marked; 
d. Every lifting appliance having more than one working load shall be fitted with effective means to 
enable the operator to determine safe working load at each point under all conditions of use; 
e. Means to ascertain the safe working load for lifting gears under such conditions in which such gears 
may be used shall be provided to enable a worker using such gears and such means safely, which 
shall comprise:  
i) Marking of the safe working load in plain figures or letters upon the sling or upon a tablet 
or ring of durable material attached securely thereto in case of chain slings; and 
54  
  
ii) The means specified or notices so exhibited as can be easily read by any concerned building 
worker stating the safe working load for the various sizes of the wire rope slings used. 
7.11 LOADING OF LIFTING APPLIANCES AND LIFTING GEARS 
a. No lifting appliance, lifting gear or wire rope shall be used in an unsafe way and in such a manner 
as to involve risk to life of building workers and they are not loaded beyond their safe working load 
except for testing purposes under the direction of a competent person in the manner as specified 
in schedule; 
b. No lifting appliance and lifting gear, or any other material- handling appliance shall be used if the 
Inspector having jurisdiction under the Building and Other construction (regulation of employment 
and con ditions of service) Act/Rules is not satisfied with reference to a certificate of test or 
examination or to an authenticated record maintained as provided under the Rules or if in his view 
the lifting appliance, lifting gear or any other material handling appliance is not safe for use in 
building or other construction work; 
c. No pulley block shall be used unless the safe working load and its identification are clearly marked 
on such block. 
7.12. OPERATOR’S CAB OR CABIN SHALL 
a. Be made of fire resistant material; 
b. Have a suitable seat, a foot rest and protection from vibration; 
c. Afford the operator an adequate view of the area of operation; 
d. Afford the necessary access to working parts in the cab; 
e. Afford the operator adequate protection against the weather; 
f. Be adequately ventilated; and 
g. Be provided with a suitable fire extinguisher. 
7.13. OPERATION OF LIFTING APPLIANCES: 
        Operator of every crane or lifting appliance shall possess adequate skill and training in the operation 
of the particular lifting appliances, provided further that 
a.   No person under eighteen years of age shall be in control of any lifting machine, scaffold winch, 
or give signals to the operator; 
b. Precaution shall be taken by the trained operator to prevent lifting appliance from being  set in 
motion inadvertently; 
c. The operation of lifting appliances shall be governed by signals in conformity with the approved 
standards; 
d. The operator’s attention shall not be distracted while he is working; 
e. No crane, hoist, winch or other lifting applianc e or any part of such crane, hoist, winch or other 
lifting appliance shall, except for testing purposes, be loaded beyond the safe working load; 
f. During the hoisting operation, effective precaution shall be taken to prevent any person from 
standing or passing under the load in such operation; 
55  
  
g. Operator shall not leave lifting appliance unattended while power is on or the load is suspended to 
such appliance; 
h. No person shall ride on a suspended load of any lifting appliance; 
i. Every part of a load in course of be ing hoisted or lowered shall bee adequately suspended and 
supported to prevent danger; 
j. Every receptacle used for hoisting bricks, tiles, slates or other material shall be suitably enclosed as 
to prevent the fall of any such material; 
k. The hoisting platform shall be enclosed when loose material or loaded wheel barrows are placed 
directly on such platform or lowering such materials or wheel barrows; 
l. No material shall be raised, lowered or slewed with any lifting appliance in such a way as to cause 
sudden jerks to such appliance; 
m. In hoisting a barrow, any wheel of such barrow shall not used be as a means of support unless 
adequate steps have been taken to prevent the axle of such wheel from slipping out of its bearing; 
n. Long objects like planks or girders shall be provided with tag line to prevent any possibility of danger 
while raising or lowering such objects; 
o. During the process of landing or material, a building worker shall not be permitted to lean out into 
empty space for finding out the loading and unloading of such material; 
p. When hoisting of load is done in an enclosed space, neither the lifting material nor the boom shall 
project outside the enclosed space; 
q. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent a load, in the course of being hoisted or lowered from 
coming into contact with any object to avoid any displacement of such load and appropriate 
appliances provided and used for guiding heavy loads when raising or lowering heavy loads to avoid 
crushing of hands of building workers   during such raising or lowering of loads. 
7.14. HOISTS 
a. Hoist towers shall be designed according to the relevant national standards; 
b. Hoist shafts shall be provided with rigid panels or other adequate fencing at the ground level on all 
sides of such shafts and at all other levels on all sides of the access to such shafts while the walls of 
hoist shafts, except at approaches, extend at least two meters above the floor or platform of access 
to such shifts; 
c. Approaches to hoist shall be adequately lit and provided with gates that shall be guarded to 
maintain visibility at least of two meters height; and equipped with a device, which requires such 
gate to be closed before the platform of such hoist can leave the landing, and prevents the gate 
from being opened unless such platform is at the landing; 
d. The guides of hoist platforms shall offer sufficient resistance to bending and to bucking in the case 
of jamming, by providing a safety catch; 
e. Overhead beams and their supports are capable of holding the total maximum live and dead loads 
that such beams and supports will be required to carry, with a safety factor of at least five; 
56  
  
f. A clear space shall be provided –  
i. Above the highest stopping place of a cage or platform to allow sufficient unobstructed travel 
of such cage or platform in case of over-winding and 
ii. Below the lowest stopping place of such cage or platform; 
g. Adequate covering shall be provided above the top of hoist shafts to prevent materials from falling 
into such shifts; 
h. Outdoor hoist towers shall be erected on adequately firm foundations and securely braced, guyed 
and anchored; 
i. A ladder way shall extend from the bottom to the top of every outdoor hoist tower in case no other 
ladder way exists within easy reach and such ladder way shall comply with the relevant national 
standards; 
j.   The rated capacity of a hoisting engine shall at least be one and a half times the maximum load 
that such engine will be required to move; 
k. All gearing on a hoisting engine shall be securely enclosed;  
l. Steam piping of hoisting engine shall be adequately protected against accidental contact of such 
piping with a building worker; 
m. Electrical equipment of a hoisting engine shall be effectively earthed; 
n. A hoist shall be provided with suitable devices to stop a hoisting engine as soon as the platform of 
such hoist reaches its highest stopping place; 
o. A hoisting engine shall be protected by suitable cover against weather and falling objects; 
p. A hoisting engine set up in a public thoroughfare shall be completely enclosed; 
q. All exhaust steam pipes shall discharge steam in such a manner that the steam so discharged does 
not scald any person or obstruct the operator’s view; 
r. The motion of a hoist shall not be reversed without first bringing it to rest to avoid any harm from 
such reverse motion; 
s. A hoist not designed for the conveyance of persons shall not be set in motion from the platform of 
such hoist; 
t. Pawls and ratchet wheels of a hoist, requiring disengagement of such pawls from such ratchet 
wheels, before the platform of such hoist is lowered, shall not be used; 
u. A platform of a hoist shall be capable of supporting such maximum load that such platform may 
carry with a safety factor of at least three; 
v. A platform of a hoist shall be equipped with suitable safety gear which can hold such platform with 
its maximum load in case its hoisting rope breaks; 
w. On platform of a hoist, the wheel barrows or truck shall be efficiently blocked in safe positions; 
57  
  
x. A cage of a hoist or platform where the building workers are required to enter into such cage or to 
go on such platform at landing levels, shall be provided with a locking arrangement to prevent such 
cage or platform from moving during the time a worker enters or leaves such cage or platform; 
y. The sides of platform of a hoist which are not used for loading or unloading, shall be provided with 
toe-board and enclosures of a wire mesh or any other suitable means to prevent the fall of any part 
of a load from such platform, further provided that 
i. The platform of a hoist, which has any probability of falling of any part of a load from it, shall 
be provided with an adequate covering to prevent such fall; 
ii. The counter weights of a hoist consisting of an assemblage of several parts shall be so 
constructed that such parts shall be rigidly connected together; 
iii. The counter weights of a hoist shall run between guides; 
iv. At every level of work the building workers shall be provided with adequate platforms for 
performing such work; 
v. A legible notice in Hindi as well as in a local language shall be displayed in a conspicuous place 
of the platform of a hoist and that  such notice shall state the maximum carrying capacity of 
such hoist in kilograms on the hoisting engine; 
vi. On a hoist authorized and certified for the conveyance of the persons on the platform or in the 
cage and such notice shall state the maximum number of  persons to be carried on such hoist 
at one time; 
vii. On a hoist carrying goods and other materials such notice shall state that such hoist is not 
meant for carriage of persons. 
7.15. FENCING AND MEANS OF ACCESS TO LIFTING APPLIANCES 
a. Safe means of access shall be provided to every part of lifting appliances; 
b. The operator’s platform on every crane or tip driven by mechanical power shall be securely fenced 
and provided with safe means of access and where access to such platform is by a ladder, the 
sides of such l adder shall extend to a height reasonable beyond such platform or some other 
suitable handhold shall be provided in the platform; 
c. The handling place on such platform shall be maintained free from obstruction and slipping; and 
d. In case the height of such lad der exceeds six meters, the resting platforms shall be provided on 
such ladder at every six meters of its height and where the distance between last platform so 
provided and the top end of such ladder is more than two meters then on such top end. 
7.16. RIGGING OF DERRICKS:  
              Every derrick shall have current and relevant rigging plans and any other information necessary for 
the safe rigging of such derrick and its gear. 
7.17. SECURING OF DERRICK FOOT: 
              Appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent the foot of a derrick from being lifted out of its 
socket or supports. 
58  
  
7.18. CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF LIFTING GEAR 
a. Every lifting gear shall be – 
i. of good design and construction, sound material and adequate strength to perform the work 
for which it is used; 
ii. free from patent defects; and 
iii. properly maintained in good repair and working order; 
b. Components of the loose gear, at the time of its use, shall be renewed if one of its dimensions at 
any point has decreased by ten per cent or more; 
c. A chain shall be withdrawn from use when it is stretched and increased in length which exceeds 
five per cent of its length or when a link of such chain is deformed or is otherwise damaged or 
defects in the welds have appeared on it; 
d. Rings, hooks, swivels and end links attached to a chain shall be of the same materials as that of 
such chain; 
e. The voltage of electric supply to any magnetic lifting device shall not fluctuate by more than plus  
or minus 10%. 
7.19. TEST AND PERIODICAL EXAMINATION OF LIFTING GEARS 
a. A lifting gear shall be initially tested for the manufacturer by a competent person in a manner   
specified as per schedule annexed before taking into use or after undergoing any substantive 
alterations which renders its any part liable to affect its safety and such gear alter such test shall 
subsequently be retested for the use of its owner at least once in every five years; 
b.  A lifting gear in use shall thoroughly examined once at least in every twelve months by a 
competent person; 
c.  A chain in use shall be thoroughly examined at least once every month by a responsible person 
for its use; 
d.  Certificates of initial and periodical test and examinations of loose gears shall be obtained in the 
form annexed. 
7.20. ROPES 
a. No rope shall be used for building or other construction work unless - 
i) It is of good quality and free from patent defects; and 
ii) In the case of wire rope, it shall be tested and examined by a competent person in the 
manner annexed; 
iii) Every wire rope of lifting appliance or lif ting gear used for building or other construction 
work shall be inspected by a responsible person for such use, once at least in every there 
month; 
59  
  
b. Provided that after if any such wire is broken in such rope, the responsible person shall thereafter 
inspect it once at least in every month and ensure that; 
c. No wire rope shall be used for building or other constructing work if in any length of eight diameters 
of such wires, the total number of visible broken wires exceed ten per cent of the total number of 
wires in such rope, or such rope shows signs of excessive wear, corrosion or other defects which in 
the opinion of the person who inspects it, is unfit for use; 
d. Eye splices and loops of ropes for the attachment of hooks, rings and other such parts to wire rope 
shall be made with suitable thimble; 
e. A thimble or loop splice made in any wire rope sling shall conform to the following standards, 
namely: 
i) Wire rope sling shall have at least three tucks with full strand of rope and two tucks with 
one-half of the wires cut out of each of such strand in all cased, such strands shall be tucked 
against the lay of the rope; 
ii) Protruding ends of such strands in any splice of wire rope slings shall be covered or treated 
so as to leave no sharp points; 
iii) A fiber rope or a rope sling shall have at least four tucks, tail of such tuck being whipped in 
a suitable manner; and 
iv) A synthetic fiber rope or rope sling shall have at least four tucks with full strands followed 
by further tuck with one -half filaments cut out of each of such strand  and final tuck with 
one-halt of the remaining filaments cut out from such strands. Any portion of the splices 
containing such tucks, with reduced number of filaments, shall be securely covered with 
suitable tape or other materials; 
v) Provided further that nothing contained above shall apply where any other form of splice, 
which may be shown to be as efficient as the splice with above standards, shall be used. 
7.21. HEAT TREATMENT OF LIFTING GEARS 
a. All chains other than bridle chains attached to derricks an d all rings, hooks, shackles and swivels 
used in hoisting or lowering of such derricks shall be effectively annealed under supervision of a 
competent person and at the following intervals, namely:  
i) Such chains, rings, hoods, shackles and swivels which are not more than twelve and a half 
millimeter of length annealed at least once in every six months; and 
ii) All other such chains rings hooks shackles and swivels shall be so annealed at least once in 
every twelve months; 
b. Provided that the clause (a) above shall not apply to - 
i) Pitched chins, working on sprocket or sprocket wheels; 
ii) Rings, hooks and swivels permanently attached to pitched chains, pulley blocks or weighing 
machines, and 
iii) Hooks and swivels having ball bearings or other case hardened parts; 
60  
  
c. A chin or a loose gear made of high tensile steel or alloy steel shall be plainly marked with a mark 
indicating that it is so made; 
d. No chain or loose gear made of high tensile steel or alloy steel shall be subjected to any form of 
heat treatment except where such trea tment is necessary for the purpose of repair of such chain 
or loose gear and that such repair shall be made under the direction of the competent person; 
e. That the wrought iron gear, the past history of which is not traceable, shall be suspected of being 
heat treated at incorrect temperature shall be normalized before using it on any building or other 
construction work. 
7.22. CERTIFICATE TO BE ISSUED AFTER ACTUAL TESTING AND EXAMINATION ETC:  
         A competent person shall issue a certificate after actual testing or examination of the apparatus 
specified and record of such test or examination shall be maintained for inspection. 
7.23. REGISTER OF PERIODICAL TEST, EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION THEREOF 
a. A register in the form annexed shall be maintained and particulars of such test and examination of 
lifting appliances, lifting gears and heat treatment as required shall be entered in such register; 
b. Certificate in respect of each of the following shall be obtained from a competent person: 
i) In cases of initial and periodical test and examination of the lifting appliances such as 
Winches, Derricks and their accessory gears, Cranes or Hoists and their accessory gears; 
(ii) In case of test, examination and re-examination of loose gears; 
(iii) In case of test and examination of wire ropes; 
(iv) In case of heat treatment and examination of loose gears; 
(v) In case of annual thorough examination of the loose gears, except where required 
particulars of such exemption have been enclosed in the register referred to in Form 
annexed and such certificates are attached to the register referred to as above and 
certificates kept at such construction site in case such register and certificate relate to lifting 
appliances, loose gear and wire ropes and 
c. Produced on demand and retained for at least fi ve years after the date of the last entry made in 
such register; 
d. No lifting appliance or lifting gear in respect of which an entry is required to be made in register 
referred to above and certificate of test and examination are required to be attached in s uch 
register in the manner as specified, shall be used for building or other construction work unless the 
required entries have been made in such register and certificates. 
7.24. VACUUM AND MAGNETIC LIFTING GEAR 
a. No vacuum lifting gear, magnetic lifting gear or any other lifting gear where the load on it is held 
by adhesive power, shall be used while workers are performing operations beneath such gear; 
b. A magnetic lifting gear used in connection with building or other construction work shall be 
provided with an alternative supply of power, such as batteries, which may come into operation 
immediately in the event of failure of the main power supply; 
61  
  
c.  No building worker shall work within the swinging zone of the lifting gear or load or building or 
other construction material suspended to such lifting gear. 
7.25. KNOTTING OF CHAINS AND WIRE ROPES: 
          No chain or wire rope with a knot in it shall be used in building or other construction work. 
7.26. CARRYING OF PERSONS BY MEANS OF LIFTING APPLIANCES ETC. 
a. No building worker shall be raised, lowered or carried by a power driven lifting appliance, except  
i.   On the drive’s platform in the cage of a crane; or 
ii.  On as hoist; or 
iii. On an approved suspended scaffold; 
b. Provided that a building worker may be raised, lowered or carried by a power driven lifting 
appliance:  
i.  In circumstances where the use of a hoist or of a suspended scaffold shall not reasonably be 
practicable, or 
ii.  On an aerial cableway or aerial ropeway, provided further that the follow ing requirements 
are met: 
iii.  That the appliance referred to above can be operated from one position only and that 
iv.  Any winch used in connection with the appliance shall also comply with the requirements as 
laid down above. 
c. The appliance referred to above shall not carry any person except: 
i. In a chair or cage, 
ii. In a skip or other receptacle at least three feet deep which shall be suitable for safe carriage 
of a person and any such chair, cage, skip or other receptacle shall be made of good 
construction, sound material, and adequate strength and properly maintained with suitable 
means to prevent any occupant therein from falling out of it and shall be free from any 
material or tools which may interfere with the handhold or foothold of such occupant or 
otherwise endanger him; and 
iii. Those suitable measures shall be taken to prevent the chair, cage skip or other receptacle 
from spinning or tipping in a manner dangerous to any occupant therein. 
7.27. HOISTS CARRYING PERSONS 
a. No building worker shall be carried with the help of a hoist unless it is provided with a cage which: 
i) Is so constructed as to prevent, when its gates are shut, any building worker carried by such 
hoist from falling out of it or from being trapped between any part of such cage and any fixed 
structure or other moving part of such hoist or from being struck by articles or materials 
falling down the hoist way on which such hoist is moving; and 
ii) Is fitted on each of its side from which access is provided to a landing place with a gate which 
has ef ficient interlocking or other devices to secure so that such gate cannot be opened 
except when such cage is at a landing place and that such cage cannot be moved away from 
any such place until such gate is closed; 
62  
  
b. Every gate in the hoist way enclosure of s uch hoist used for carrying persons shall be fitted with 
efficient interlocking or other devices to secure so that such gate cannot be opened except when 
the cage of such gate is at the landing place and that such cage cannot be moved away from the 
landing place until such gate is closed; 
c.  In every hoist used for carrying building workers there are provided with suitable and efficient 
automatic devices to ensure that the cage of such hoist comes to rest at a point above the lowest 
point to which such gave may travel.  
7.28. ATTACHMENT OF LOADS 
a. When a sling is used to hoist long materials, a lifting beam shall be used to space the sling legs for 
proper balance and when a load is suspended at two or more points with slings, the eyes of the 
lifting legs of such slings shall be shackled together and such shackled or eyes of the shackled slings 
shall be placed on the hook or the eyes of such lifting legs shall be shackled directly to the hoisting 
block, ball or balance beam, as the case may be; 
b. Every container or receptacle used for raising or lowering stone, bricks tiles, slates or other similar 
objects shall be so enclosed with the hoist as to prevent the fall of such objects; 
c. A loaded wheel barrows placed directly on a platform of a hoist for raising or lowering of such wheel 
barrows shall be so secured that such wheel barrows cannot move and such platform shall be 
enclosed to prevent the fall of the contents kept in such wheel barrows; 
d. Landings of hoists shall be so designed and arranged that building workers on  such hoist be not 
required to lean out into empty space for loading and unloading on any material from such hoist 
7.29. TOWER CRANES 
a. No person other than the operator trained and capable to work at heights shall be employed to 
operate tower cranes; 
b.  The ground on which a tower crane stands shall have adequate bearing capacity; 
c.  Bases for tower cranes and trucks for rail mounted tower cranes shall be firm and leveled and such 
cranes erected at a reasonably safe distance from excavations and operated within gradient limits 
as specified by the manufacturer of such cranes; 
d.  Tower cranes shall be sited where there is a clear space available for erection, operation and 
dismantling of such cranes; 
e.  Tower cranes shall be sited in such a way that the loads on such c ranes shall not be handled over 
any occupied premises, public thoroughfares, railways or near power cables, other than 
construction works for which such cranes are used; 
f.  Where two or more tower cranes are sited and operated, every care shall be taken to e nsure 
positive and proper communication between operators of such cranes to avoid any dagger or 
dangerous occurrences; 
g.  Tower cranes shall not be used for loading magnet, or demolition ball service, piling operation or 
other similar operations which could impose excessive load stresses on the crane structure of such 
cranes; 
63  
  
h.  The instruction of the manufacturer of a tower crane and standard safe practices regarding such 
cranes shall be followed while operating or using such cranes. 
7.30. QUALIFICATION OF OPERATOR OF LIFTING WINCHES AND OF SIGNALER ETC. 
a. No person shall be employed to drive or operate a lifting appliance whether driven by mechanical 
power or otherwise or to give signals to driver of operator of such lifting appliance or to work as an 
operator of a rigger or derricks unless he is 
i) Sufficiently competent and reliable; 
ii) Possesses the knowledge of he inherent risks involved in the operation of lifting appliance;  
iii) Medically examined periodically as specified and 
iv) Is above eighteen years of age. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64  
  
8.0 SAFETY IN THE USE OF TRANSPORT, EARTHMOVING      
 EQUIPMENT & OTHER CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY 
8.1 EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES 
a.  All vehicles and earthmoving equipment shall be made of good material, proper design and sound 
constructional and be sufficiently strong for the purpose for which such equipment are properly 
used in accordance with standard safe operating practices; 
b.   Provided that the truck or trailer employed for transporting freight containers shall be of the size 
sufficient to carry the containers, without over hanging and provided with twist locks conforming 
to approved standards, at all the four corners of each of such use by an authority under the relevant 
law for the time being in force and is inspected by a responsible person, at least once in a month 
and record of such inspection shall be maintained: 
c.  All transport or earth moving equipment and vehicles shall be inspected at least once a week by a 
responsible person and in case any defend is noticed in such equipment or vehicle it shall be 
immediately taken out of use; 
d.  Power trucks and tractors shall be equipped with effective brakes, headlights and tail lamps and  
maintained in good repair and working order; 
e. Side stanchions on power trucks and trailers for crying heavy and long objects shall be 
i. Of sound construction and free from defects; 
ii. Provided with tie chains attached to the top across the loads for preventing such stanchions 
from spreading out; and 
iii. Kept in position while loading and unloading; 
iv. Safe gangways provided for to and fro movement of building workers engaged in loading and 
unloading of lorries, trucks, trailers and wagons; 
v. Trucks and other equipment shall not be loaded beyond their safe capacity and carry workers 
engaged in loading and unloading of lorries, trucks trailers and wagons in an unsafe condition; 
vi. Handles of trucks shall be so designed as to protect the hands of the building workers working 
on such trucks, or such handles provided with knuckle guards; 
vii. No unauthorized person shall ride the transport equipment employed in such work; 
viii. A driver of a transport equipment shall maneuver such equipment under the direction of a 
signaler; 
ix. Adequate precaution such as isolating the electric supply or erecting overhead barriers of a 
safe height shall be taken when earth moving equipment or vehicles are required to operate 
in dangerous proximity to any live electric conductor; 
x. Vehicles and earth moving equipme nt shall not be left on a slope with the engine of such 
vehicles or equipment running; 
65  
  
xi. All earth moving equipment, vehicles or other transport equipment shall be operated only by 
such person who are adequately trained and possess such skills as required for safe operation 
of such equipment, vehicle or other transport equipment.  
8.2. POWER SHOVELS AND EXCAVATOR 
a. A shovel or an excavator whether operated by steam or electric or by internal combustion, shall be 
constructed, installed, operated, tested and examined as per approved standards; 
b. Excavator equipped for use as a mobile crane shall be examined and tested in accordance with the 
requirements for such mobile cranes as laid down by the manufacturer; and 
c. Fitted with an automatic safe working load indicator; 
d. Buckets or grabs of power shovels shall be propped to restrict the movement of such bu ckets or 
grabs while being repaired or while the teeth of such buckets or grabs are being changed. 
8.3. BULLDOZER 
a. Operator of every such bulldozer before leaving the dozer shall take the following steps: 
i) Apply the brakes; 
ii) Lower the blade and sipper and  
iii) Put the shift lever into neutral; 
iv) Dozer left on level ground at the close of the work for which such bulldozer is used; 
v) The blade of a bulldozer kept low when such bulldozer is moving uphill; 
vi) The bulldozer blades not used as brakes except in an emergency. 
8.4. SCRAPERS 
a. A tractor and scraper shall be joined by safety line at the time of its operation; 
b. The scraper bowls shall be propped while blades of such scraper are being replaced; 
c. A scraper moving downhill shall not be left in gear. 
8.5. MOBILE ASPHALT LAYERS & FINISHERS 
a. A mixture elevator shall be located within a wooden or sheet metal enclosure with a window for 
observation, lubrication and maintenance; 
b. Bitumen scoops shall have adequate covers; 
c. When asphalt plants are working on public road, adequate t raffic control shall be established on 
such road and the building workers working with such plant provided with reflective jackets; 
d. A sufficient number of fire extinguishers shall be kept in readiness at such workplace where fire 
hazards may exist; 
e. The materials shall be loaded on the elevator after the drying drain has warmed up of such elevator; 
f. No open light shall be used for ascertaining the level of asphalt; 
66  
  
g. Inspection opening shall not be opened till there is a pressure in the boiler, which may cause injury 
to building workers. 
8.6. PAVERS:  
        Pavers shall be equipped with guards suitable to prevent building workers from walking under the skip 
of such pavers. 
8.7. Road rollers:  Before a road roller is used on the ground, such ground shall be examined for its 
bearing capacity and general safety, especially at the edges of slopes such as embankment on such 
grounds and shall not be moved downhill with the engine out of gear. 
8.8. GENERAL SAFETY IN RESPECT OF POWERED CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY  
a. Every vehicle or earthmoving equipment shall be equipped with - 
i) Silencers; 
ii) Tail lights 
iii) Power and hand brakes; 
iv) Reversing alarm; and 
v) Search light for forward and backward movement, which are required for safe operation of 
such vehicle or earthmoving equipment; 
b. The cab of vehicle or earthmoving equipment shall bee kept at least one meter from the adjacent 
face of a ground being excavated; 
c. When cranes of shovel are traveling, the boom of such crane or shovel shall be in the direction of 
such travel and the bucket or scoop attached to such crane or shovel raised and without load except 
when such traveling is downhill. 
67  
  
9.0 SAFETY IN THE PROVISION OF RUNWAYS AND RAMP 
9.1. USE OF RUNWAYS AND RAMPS:  
a. Runway or ramps shall not be less than 430 mm in width and constructed of not less than 25 mm 
thick planking or any other material of adequate strength to withstand the required load, supported 
substantially in relation to the span and braced with such runway or ramp, and design and 
construction of such runway or ramp shall be in accordance with the approved standards; 
b. Every runway or ramp located more than 3 m above the floor or ground shall be on open sides and 
provided with a guardrail of adequate strength and height of not less than 1 m.  
c. Use of runways and ramps by vehicles: 
i. All runways and ramps shall be of sound construction, strength and securely braced and 
supported; 
ii. Every runway or ramp for the use of transport equipment like trailers, trucks or heavier 
vehicles shall have a width of not less than 3.7 m an d provide with timber curbs or any other 
material of adequate strength with not less than 200 mm by 200 mm in width placed parallel 
to, and secured to, the sided of such runway or ramp and such runways or ramps or ramps 
shall be designed in accordance with the approved standards. 
9.2. SLOPE OF RAMPS:  
      Every ramp shall have a slope not exceeding one in four and the total rise of a continuous ramp 
used by building workers carrying material or using wheelbarrows shall not exceed 3.7 m, 
unless broken by horizontal landing of at least 1.2 m in length.  
9.3. USE OF RUNWAYS OR RAMPS BY WHEELBARROWS, ETC. 
a. Every runway or ramp used for wheelbarrows and carts or hand trucks shall not be less than 1 
m width and constructed of not less than 50 mm thick planking, and supported and braced 
suitably for such use; 
b. Every runway or ramp located more than 3 m above the floor or ground shall be provided on 
the open sides with suitable guardrails of adequate strength. 
 
68  
  
10. SAFETY IN HANDLING AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES 
 
10.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
a. The use of explosives shall be carried out in a safe manner to avoid injury to any person and under 
the direct supervision of a responsible person; 
b. No person other than authorized and competent one shall be allowed to handle and use explosives; 
c. Before using any explosive, necessary warning and danger signals shall be erected, at conspicuous 
places of such use to warn the building workers and the general public of the danger involved in 
such use. 
d. No person other than authorized and compet ent one shall be allowed to handle and use 
explosives. 
e. Smoke, open lamps, other type of hot or heat producing items and sparks shall be prohibited 
in or near explosives magazines or while explosives are being handled, transported or used. 
f. No person shall be allowed to handle or use explosives while under the influence of intoxicating 
liquors or dangerous drugs. 
g. The explosives shall be accounted for at all times. No explosives or blasting agents shall be 
abandoned. 
h. No fire shall be fought where the fire is in the imminent danger of contact with explosives. All 
employees shall be removes to a safe area and the fire area shall be guarded against intruders. 
i. Employees authorized to prepare explosive charges or conduct blasting operations shall use 
every reasonable precaution including but not limited to visual and audible warning signals, 
flags, or barricades to ensure employee safety. 
j. Due precautions shall be taken to prevent accidental discharge of electric blasting caps from 
current induced by induced voltage,  lightning, adjacent power lines, dust storms, or other 
sources of extraneous electricity or otherwise. These precautions shall include: 
k. Short-circuiting of detonators in holes, which have been primed and shunted until wired into 
the blasting circuit. 
l. The suspension of all blasting operations and removal of persons from the blasting area during 
the approach and progress of an electric storm. 
m. The prominent display of adequate signs, warning against the use of radio transmitters, on all 
roads within 1000 ft of blasting operations. Whenever adherence to the 1000 ft distance would 
create an operational handicap, a competent and expert person shall be consulted to evaluate 
the particular situation, and an alternative provided, which are adequately designed to prevent 
any premature firing of electric blasting of caps. A description of any such blasting shall be 
reduced to writing and shall be certified as meeting the purposes of this subdivision by the 
competent person consulted. The description shall be maintained at the construction site 
during the duration of the work, and shall be available for inspection. 
69  
  
n. Empty boxes and paper and fiber packing materials, which have previously contained high 
explosives, shall not be used again for any purpose, but shall be destroyed by burning at an 
approved location. 
o. Explosives, blasting agents and blasting supplies that are obviously deteriorated or damaged 
shall not be used. 
p. Delivery and issue of explosives shall only be made authorized persons into authorized 
magazines or approved temporary storage or handling areas. 
q. Blasting operations in the proximity of overhead power lines, communication lines, utility 
services, or other services and structures shall not be carried on until the operators and/or 
owners have been notified and measures for safe control have been taken. In such situations 
controlled blasting shall be restored to.  
r. All loading and firing shall be directed and supervised by competent persons thoroughly 
experienced in this field. 
s. Loaded boreholes shall not be left unattended after the end of the shift. 
t. Suitable and sufficient means of egress to ground level shall be provided in all cases of 
excavations, trenches, all other places where explosives are handled above or below ground 
level. 
u. At an appropriate time before the final blasting warnings, workers in the area shall be removed 
to a designated safe place. 
v. An unmistakable, audible, final warning shall be sounded one minute prior to the detonation 
of explosives; after completion, when the person in charge has established that safe conditions 
prevail, an “all clear” shall be sounded. 
w. To prevent persons entering any danger zone during blasting operations notices shall be given 
to all concerned. 
x. Notices referred above shall indicate: 
i. that explosives are in use; 
ii. the audible warning sound and the “all clear” and state when they will be sounded; and 
iii. the warning flags in use, including an “all clear” flag. 
y. Precautions against lightning shall be provided in accordance with the Indian Electricity Act and 
Indian Explosives Act and Rules and regulations framed there under. 
z. Package containing explosives shall not be dragged, dropped or handled roughly. 
aa. Non-sparking tools shall be used to open keys. 
bb. The explosives shall not be carried in the box or otherwise on any individual. 
cc. Nothing shall be inserted in the open end of the blasting cap except fuses. 
70  
  
dd. Deteriorated or damages explosives shall not be used but shall be disposed or destroyed strictly 
in accordance with the approved methods and in the doing so the manufacturers o r the 
appropriate authority’s instructions shall be followed.  
ee. lightning shall be in accordance with Indian Electricity Act/Rules 
10.2. TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVES  
a. Keep safe distance and to use non-sparking tools while opening packages containing explosives; 
b. Stop the use of explosives and handling thereof while the weather conditions are not suitable 
for such use or handling; 
c. Due precautions shall be taken to prevent accidental discharge of electric blasting caps from 
current induced by induced voltage, lightni ng, adjacent power- lines, dust storms or other 
sources of extraneous electricity or otherwise. These precautions shall include – 
i. Suspension of all blasting operations and evacuation of persons; 
ii. All warning signs shall be displayed within 200 m of blasting operations and in case putting 
up a sign at 200 m is impractical, the contractor shall consult the Engineer- in-charge for 
alternatives; 
iii. All loading and firing shall be directed and supervised by competent persons thoroughly 
experienced in the field; 
iv. To prevent persons entering any danger zone during blasting operations, notices shall be 
given to all concerned;  
d. In addition to these provisions, all measures and precautions that are required to be observed 
for use, handling, storing or transportation of explo sives under the Rules framed under the 
Explosives Act, 1884 (4 of 1884) shall be observed; 
e. All the relevant statutory provisions, local laws and rules and regulations shall be complied 
with. 
f. Where the magazine is located near the construction site and blas ting operation continues 
daily, actual requirement of explosives shall be drawn from the magazine and transported 
to the site. Any leftovers shall be returned to the magazine each time after the blast. In case 
of work at scattered places and for a small du ration, portable magazines shall be used and 
kept within a fence in safe place and properly guarded. 
g. For carrying higher quantity (more than 5 kg of explosives) specially designed insulated 
containers shall be used.  These containers shall be constructed o f finished wood not less 
than 5cm thick or plastic not less than 6mm thick or pressed fibre not less than 10mm thick.  
There shall be no metal parts (not even nails, bolts, screws etc.) and the containers shall be 
provided with suitable non -conductive carrying device, such as rubber, leather or canvas 
handle or strap. 
h. Vehicles to be used for transportation explosives shall be in good working condition and shall 
have a tight wooded or non-sparking metal (copper, brass and the like) floor with sides and 
71  
  
ends high enough to prevent the explosives from failing off the vehicle.  In open bodied 
vehicles, the explosives shall be covered with a waterproof and fibre tarpaulin. 
i. Electrical wiring in vehicle shall be fully insulated so as to prevent the danger of short -
circuiting and at least two fire extinguishers of carbon dioxide type shall be carried.  The 
vehicle shall be properly marked indicating adequate warning to the public in regard to the 
nature of cargo. 
j. No metals except approved metal truck shall be allowed  to come in contact with cases of 
explosives, metal, flammable, or corrosive substance shall not be transported with 
explosives.  As far as possible, transportation of any material along with explosives shall be 
prohibited. 
k. Smoking shall be prohibited in the vehicle carrying explosives. 
l. No unauthorized person shall be allowed in the vehicle, carrying explosives. 
m. Loading and unloading of explosives shall be done carefully. 
n. Explosives and detonators or blasting caps shall not be permitted to be transported in  the 
same vehicle. 
o. Detonators and other explosives for blasting shall be transported to the site of work in the 
original containers or in securely locked separate non -metallic containers and shall not be 
carried loose or mixed with other materials. 
10.3. STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS 
a. Explosives and related materials shall be stored in approved facilities. 
b. Blasting caps, electric blasting caps, detonating primers, and primed cartridges shall not be 
stored in the same magazine with other explosives or blasting agents. 
c. Smoking and open flames shall not be permitted within 50 feet of explosives and detonators 
storage magazine.  
d. No Explosives or blasting agents shall be permanently stored in any underground area until 
the area has been developed to the poin t where at lease two modes of exit have been 
provided. 
e. Permanent underground storage magazine shall be at least 300 feet from any shaft or other 
active under ground working area. 
f. Permanent underground magazines containing detonators shall not be located closer than 50 
feet to any magazine containing other explosives or blasting agents. 
10.4. DRILLING AND LOADING       
a. Before planning out the drilling operations for blasting purposes, nature of stratum and the   
over burden shall necessarily be examined to avoid possibilities of landslides after blasting. 
b. The face or rock shall be carefully examined before drilling to determine the presence of 
unfired explosives.  No attempt shall be made to drill at a site if un -detonated explosives 
are suspected. In such case the boreholes shall be thoroughly cleaned before a cartridge is 
72  
  
inserted.  Wooden tamping rods (not pointed, but cylindrical throughout) shall be used in 
the charging the holes.  The cartridge will be on the top.  
c. The borehole shall be carefully checked for length, presence of water dust, etc. with a 
wooden temping pole or a measuring tape before loading. 
d. Surplus explosives shall not be stacked near working areas during loading/unloading. 
e. The line of detonating fuse extending into a borehole shall be cut from the spool before 
loading the   remainder of the charge. 
f. A bore shall not be loaded with explosives after springing (enlarging the hole with 
explosives) or upon completion of drilling without making sure it is cool and it does not 
contain any hot smoldering material.  Temperatures in excess of 65o C are dangerous. 
g. A bore near another hole loaded with explosives shall not be sprung. 
h. No force shall be used for inserting cartridges or any explosives into a bore hold or pass any 
obstruction in a borehole. 
i. No force shall be used for inserting a blasting cap or an electric blasting cap into explosive.  
The cap shall be inserted into a hole made with a pickers designed for the purpose.  A hitch 
of the electric blasting cap leading wire shall be made on the primer ca rtridge so as to 
prevent pulling out the electric blasting cap from the explosive charge.  In case of fuse, the 
fuse shall be tied to the explosive cartridge so that the blasting cap is not pulled out.  Care 
shall be taken so that the blasting cap is not p ulled out.  Care shall be taken so that the 
electric blasting cap, leading wire or the length of the fuse does not get damaged during 
loading of the charge.  
j. No attempt shall be made to slit, drop, deform or abuse the primer. 
k. Blasting caps or electric blasting caps shall not be connected to detonating fuse except by 
methods recommended by the manufacturers of caps. 
l. Explosive cartridge shall not be cut, nor explosive removed from the cartridge for use. 
m. Metallic devices of any kind shall not be used in tamping.  Wooden tamping tools with not 
exposed metal parts except non-sparking metal connectors for jointed poled shall be used. 
Violent tamping shall be avoided.  Primer shall not be tamped. 
n. Care shall be taken to confine the explosives in the bore hold with sand, earth clay or other 
suitable combustible stemming material. 
o. Kinking or injuring of fuse or electric blasting cap wires shall be avoided when tamping. 
10.5. ELECTRICAL SHOT-FIRING CIRCUIT 
a. In deciding the sizes of wires, fuses, circuits, blasting switches, etc., instructions issued by the 
manufacturers of these articles shall be followed, if they do not contradict with Indian 
Explosives Act or framed under it. 
b. No person shall attempt to uncoil the wires and open out the short- circuited bare leading 
wires of the electric blasting cap during approach of dust storm or near any source of large 
73  
  
charge of static electricity or near a radio transmitter.  The manufacturer of the cap or the 
Inspectorate of Explosives shall be consulted regarding the distance from the transmitter 
beyond which electric short firing shall be conducted. 
c. Firing circuit shall be kept completely insulated from the ground of the other conductors, such 
as wires, rails, pipes or other paths or stray current. 
d. There shall not be any electric live wires or cables of any kind near electric blasting caps or 
other explosives except at the time and for the purpose of firing the blast.                      
e. All electric blasting caps shall be tested singly and also when connected in a circuit in series 
using only an approved type of circuit continuity tester or ohmmeter.     
f. No attempt shall be made to use in the same circuit either electrical blasting caps made by 
more than one manufacturer or electric blasting caps of different design or function even if 
made by the same manufacturers unless such use is approved by the manufacturers. 
g. No attempt shall be made to fire a circuit of electric blasting caps with less than the minimum 
current specified by the manufacturer of that electric blasting cap. 
h. Care shall be taken to ensure that all wire ends to be connected are bright and clean. 
i. The electric cap wires or leading wires shall be kept short circuited until ready to fire. 
j. When energy for blasting is taken from power circuits the voltage shall not exceed 220v . The 
wiring controlling arrangements shall conform to the following: 
k. The blasting switch shall be strictly according to the specifications, externally operated 
double-throw switch, which when locked in the open position will short circuit and ground the 
leading wires.  The switch shall be installed at the location where the firing is to be controlled. 
l. A ‘safety’ switch of the same type as the blasting switch shall be installed between the blasting 
switch and the firing circuit and lead lines, at a distance not to exceed 180cm from the blasting 
switch. 
m. Both the safety switch and the blasting switch shall be locked in the open position immediately 
after the shot and before any person is permitted to return to the blasting area.  Key to the 
switches shall remain in the possession of the blaster at all times. 
n. Rubber covered or other adequately insulated copper wires in good condition shall be used 
for firing lines and shall have solid cores of appropriate gauge.  Sufficient firing line shall be 
provided to permit the blaster to be located at a safe distance from the blast. Single conductor 
lead lines shall be used. 
o. Blasting operations in the proximity of overhead power lines, communication lines, utility 
lines, or other structures shall not be carried on until th e operator or the owner, or both of 
such lines as been notified and precautionary measures deemed necessary, have been taken. 
p. All holes loaded on a shift shall be fired on the same shift. 
q. As far as possible, blasting shall be carried out using suitable exploder with 25 per cent excess 
capacity.  Electric power from the mains shall be used only when it is absolutely necessary. 
74 
10.6. SHOT-FIRING WITH SAFETY FUSE 
a. The fuse shall be carefully handled to avoid damaging the covering.  In very cold weather the
fuse shall be slightly warmed before using so as to avoid cracking the waterproofing.
b. Short fuse shall not be used.  The length of a fuse shall not be less than 120cm.  The rate of
burning of the fuse shall be known and it would be necessary to make sure that it will take
sufficient time in burning so as to enable all persons to reach a place of safety.  The burning
rate of the fuse shall not be more than 60 cm/min.
c. The fuse shall not be cut until the operation to insert the fuse into a blasting cap is ready.  The
fuse shall be cut off about 2.5 to 5 cm to ensure a dry end.  It shall be cut squarely across with
a clean and sharp blade.  The fuse shall be seated lightly against the cap charge and care shall
be taken to avoid twisting after it has been placed in position.
d. Blasting caps shall not be crimped by any means except by a cap crimper designed for the
purpose.  It shall be necessary to make sure that the cap is squarely crimped to the face.
e. The fuse shall be lighted with a fuse lighter designed for the purpose.  If a match is used, the
fuse   shall be slit at the end and the match head held in then slit against the power core and
then the match head rubbed against an abrasive surface to light the fuse.
f. The fuse shall not be lighted until sufficient stemming has been placed over the explosives to
prevent sparks of live match heads from coming into contact with the explosives.
g. The explosives shall not be held in hands when lighting the fuse.
10.7. UNDERGROUND WORK 
a. Only permissible explosives and in the manner as specified by the appropriate authority shall
be used.
b. Excessive quantities of explosives shall not be taken underground at any time.  Black blasting
powder or pellet powder shall not be used with any other explosive in the same borehole.
10.8. BEFORE AND AFTER FIRING 
a. Before firing, sufficient warning shall be given to enable the people working in the area to get
off the danger zone.  The danger zone shall be suitable cordoned off and flag men posted at
important points.
b. No loose materials, such as tools, drilling implements etc. Shall be left on the rock surfaces to
be blasted.
c. Blasting in the open shall be carried out during the fixed hours every day or on fixed days in
the week. This information shall be amply publicized and the following precautions observed:
d. On the project sites, where blasting operations are carried out, daily blasting hours    shall be
clearly printed on the sign-boards on all the roads approaching that area.
i. Road closing barriers should be provided to close the traffic on these roads, at least 400
meters away when the firing is to take place.
75  
  
ii. The beginning of the firing shall follow loud sirens and similarly loud sirens shall succeed 
the completion of the firing. 
e. The shot-firer shall not be allowed to return to the blasting site after firing, until at least 5 min 
have elapsed.  In case of electric shot firing, the shot holes shall be examined after firing and 
in case of misfire no person shall be allowed to ap proach the blasting site for at lease 5 min.  
In case of shot firing with safety fuse, utmost care shall be taken to count the number to 
ensure that all the shots have fired and in the event of misfire, no person shall be allowed to 
approach the blasting s ite for at least 30 min.  In any case, a careful inspection for the 
remaining un-detonated explosive shall be made after firing the shots.  All misfired shot holes 
shall be cross-marked.  No other person than those duly authorized shall approach the holes 
until one of the following operations has been performed in respect of each of the misfired 
holes: 
f. If the misfire is due to a faulty cable or faulty electrical connection the defect shall be remedied 
and the shot fired. 
g. The stemming shall be floated out by use of water or air jet from hose until the hole has been 
opened to within 60 cm of the charge, whereupon water will be siphoned or pumped out, 
then a fresh new charge placed and duly detonated. Or 
i. A careful search shall be made of unexploded material in the debris of the charge. 
ii. If a shift charge is unavoidable, the person in-charge of one shift before leaving the work 
shall inform the person relieving him for the next shift of any cases misfired and shall point 
out their position duly cross marked and also state clearly what action has to be taken in 
the matter. 
Note: The rules are made considering statutory provisions and other National/International 
standards.  However, if any statutory provision overruling these laws is made, the statutory provisions 
shall overrule the NTPC Rules. 
76  
  
11.0 SAFETY IN EXCAVATION & TUNNELING WORK  
SAFETY IN EXCAVATION 
11.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
a. Before undertaking any activity, the soil shall be tested and in case of availability of any explosive 
gas, necessary arrangements must be made to remove/dilute such gases and in case they are 
found to be toxic or poisonous, the workplace must be purged and continuous ventilation 
maintaining the contamination below the permissible level ensured; 
b. The position of underground installations such as sewers, water pipes and electrical cables shall 
be verified and in case of their existence, they must be isolated; 
c. If they cannot be isolated or removed or shutdown, they shall be fenced, hung up or otherwise 
protected. On every part likely to be visite d by persons or where transport vehicles ply, the area 
shall be suitably fenced, guarded or barricaded to prevent fall of persons, vehicles or livestock into 
the excavated area; 
d. Warning signs shall be erected and the in the night hours the area shall be il luminated to warn 
pedestrians and vehicular traffic; 
e. Arrangements shall be made to prevent external vibrations due to rail/road traffic; 
f. Blasting shall be carried out in accordance with the norms applicable in this regard. Special care 
shall be taken to control the impact of vibrations/tremor caused by blasting to protect excavations 
from cave-ins; 
g. Arrangements shall be made to save other buildings/structures in the affected zone or in the 
vicinity of the area of excavation, from collapse; 
11.2  SHORING AND TIMBERING  
a. Site of excavations, where workers are exposed to danger from moving ground, shall be made 
safe by maintaining due slope not exceeding the angle of repose of different types of soil or 
otherwise by shoring, portable shields or other effective means; 
b. All trenches in the soil, other than rock or hard compact soil more than 1.5 m deep into which 
men enter, shall be securely shored and timbered under the supervision of a competent 
person and only the trained workers shall be allowed to substantially alter or dismantle the 
shoring or timbering; 
c. All struts, braces and walls in excavation shall be adequately secured so as to prevent their 
accidental displacement; 
d. In all excavations in soft or fissured rock or hard soil exceeding 2 m in depth, except thos e 
which are sloped to within 1.5 m of the bottom into which men enter, shall be securely shored 
and timbered; 
e. Where the sides of the excavations are sloped as outlined above, but not within the 1.5 m of 
the bottom, vertical sides shall be shored and the sh oring shall extend at least 30 cm above 
the vertical sides. When open spaced sheathing is used, a toe -board shall be provided to 
prevent material rolling down the slope and falling into the excavated. 
77  
  
11.3. SHEATHING  
a. The sheathing should be placed against the s ide of the trench so that length of each piece of 
sheathing is vertical. It should be held securely in place against the wales by ensuring that 
sheathing is kept firmly pressed against the wall of the trench. Where the trench excavated is 
loose, sandy or s oft soil or soil which has been previously excavated or soil which is under 
hydrostatic pressure, each piece of sheathing shall be driven into the bottom of the trench so 
as to firmly hold it in place; 
b. Where two or more pieces of sheathing are used one abo ve another, the sheathing shall be 
so arranged that the lower pieces of sheathing shall overlap the lowest wales supporting the 
piece of sheathing next above it. These pieces of sheathing shall be firmly driven into the soil 
and securely supported by wales and struts, as the trench is made deeper. 
11.4. WALES 
a. The wales shall be parallel to the bottom or the proposed bottom of the trench. Each wale 
shall be supported on cleats spiked to the sheathing or by posts set on the wales next below 
it and in the case of the lowest wale on the bottom of the trench itself.  Where necessary, 
wedges may be provided between a wale and the sheathing it supports so that roughly 
uniformity is given to all individual pieces of sheathing. 
11.5. STRUTS  
a. Struts shall be horizontal and at right angles to the wales or sheathing supported ther eby. 
Struts shall be cut to the proper length required to fit in tightly between the wales. Where 
necessary, the struts shall be held securely in place by wedges, driven between the struts and 
the wales; 
b. Struts shall be placed on cleats spiked or bolted to the posts supporting the Wales. 
11.6. LOOSE SITE MATERIALS:  
 No loose material shall be kept very close to the excavation creating possibility of its fall into the 
excavated area. A safe distance of at least 1 m shall be maintained. 
11.7. PLANT & MACHINERY:  
Movement of vehicles and heavy equipment shall be kept at a distance least equal to the depth 
of the excavation or at least 6 m for excavation deeper than 6 m and the workers shall be 
provided with proper tools. 
11.8. MEANS OF ACCESS 
a. For trenches deeper than 1.5 m, safe means of access and egress shall be provided at intervals 
of every 15 m. Where it is not possible to provide safe means of access and egress as above, 
ladders shall extend from the bottom of the trench to at least 90 cm above the ground; 
b. Walkways, runways and sidewalks shall be kept clear of excavated materials or other 
obstructions and no side walls shall be undermined-undercut unless it is capable of carrying a 
minimum live load of 125 lbs per square feet; 
78  
  
c. If planks are used for raising walkways,  runways or sidewalks, they should be parallel to the 
length of the walk and fastened together against displacement; 
d. Lone worker shall not be allowed to work in the excavated area. 
11.9. INSPECTIONS: 
 A competent person shall make inspections every day and necessary measures shall be taken to 
safeguard against possible cave-ins or slide or collapse of the excavations. 
11.10. NOTIFICATION OF INTENTION TO CARRY OUT EXCAVATION AND TUNNELING WORK 
a. Within thirty days, prior to the commencement of such excavation or tunneling work, the 
contractor shall inform in writing the detailed layout plans, method of construction and 
schedule of such excavation or tunneling work to the Engineer in-charge of NTPC;  
b. In case compressed air is used in such excavation or tunneling work or any work incidental to 
or required for such excavation or tunneling work, the technical details and drawings of all 
man-locks and medical-locks together with names and addresses of a ll construction medical 
officers duly qualified and so appointed by such contractor for the purpose of such excavation 
or tunneling work shall be sent to the Engineer in-charge. 
11.11. PROJECT ENGINEER 
a. The contractor undertaking any excavation or tunneling work shall appoint a Project Engineer 
for safe operation of such projects; 
b. Such Project Engineer shall exercise overall control of the operations and the activities at such 
project and be responsible for carrying out the activities safely. 
11.12.  RESPONSIBLE PERSON 
a. The contractor undertaking excavation or tunnel ling work at construction site of a building or 
other construction work shall appoint a responsible person for safe operation of such 
excavation or tunneling work; 
b.  The name and addresses of such responsible persons shall be forwarded to the Engineer in-
charge; 
c.  Duties and responsibilities of the responsible person referred to above person shall include  
i. To carry out smoothly such excavation or tunneling work; 
ii. To inspect and rectify any hazardous situation rel ating to such excavation or tunneling 
work; 
iii. To take remedial measures to avoid any unsafe practice or conditions relating to such 
excavation or tunneling work. 
11.13. WARNING SIGNS AND NOTICES 
a. Suitable warning signs or notices, required for the safety of building workers carrying out the 
work of an excavation or tunneling, shall be displayed or erected at conspicuous places in Hindi 
79 
and in language understood by the majority of such building wor kers at such excavation or 
tunneling work; 
b. Such warning signs and notices with regard to compressed air working shall include:
i) The danger involved in such compressed air work;
ii) Fire and explosion hazards;
iii) The emergency procedures for rescue from such danger or hazards.
11.14. REGISTER OF EMPLOYMENT 
a. The contractor shall ensure that at a construction site of a building or other construction work
where an excavation or tunneling work is being carried on, a register of employment of
building workers carrying out such excavation or tunneling work is maintained and produced
on demand;
b. Periods of work of such excavation or tunneling work shall be maintained in a register on day-
to-day basis and such register shall be produced on demand
11.15. ILLUMINATION 
a. All contractors carrying out excavation or tunneling work at a construction site of a building
or other construction work shall provide for emergency generators on such construction site
to ensure adequate illumination at all work places where such excavation or tunneling work is
being carried out;
b. In case of power failure, all workplaces where excavation or tunneling works are carried out
shall be   adequately illuminated
11.16. PNEUMATIC TOOLS: 
 Supply lines to pneumatic tools used within a tunnel are fitted with water trap or safety chain 
or safety wire, as the case may be. 
11.17. STABILITY OF STRUCTURE DURING GENERAL EXCAVATION & TUNNELING: 
 The contractor shall ensure that where there is any doubt as to the stability of any structure 
adjoining the workplace or other areas to be excavated or where tunneling work is to be carried 
out – 
a. The Project Engineer shall arrange for measures like underpinning, sheet piling, shoring,
bracing or other similar means to support such structure and to prevent injury to any building
worker working adjacent to such structure or damage to property or equipment adjacent to
such structure;
b. Where any building worker engaged in excavation is exposed to hazard of falling or sliding
material or article from any bank or side  of such excavation which is more than 1.5 m above
his footing, such worker shall be protected by adequate piling and bracing against such bank
or side;
80  
  
c. The excavation and its vicinity shall be checked by a responsible person after every rain, storm 
or other occurrences carrying hazards and in case a hazard is noticed at such checking, 
adequate protection against slides and cave-in to prevent such hazard shall be provided; 
d. Temporary sheet piling installed for the construction of a retaining wall after excavation shall 
not be removed, except on the advice of the responsible person after an inspection carried 
out by such responsible person; 
e. Where banks of an excavation are undercut, adequate shoring shall be provided to support 
the material or article overhanging such bank; 
f. Excavated material shall not be stored at least 0.5 m from the edge of an open excavation or 
trench and the banks of such excavation or trench shall be stripped of loose rocks and other 
materials which may slide, roll or fall upon a building worker working below such bank; 
g. Adequate and suitable warning signs shall be put- up at conspicuous places at the excavation 
work to avoid any person falling into the excavations or trenches; 
h. The responsible person shall ensure at the excavation that no building worker is permitted to 
work where such building worker may be struck or endangered by the excavation machinery 
or material or article used in such excavation.  
11.18. SAFE ACCESS AND EGRESS: 
  Ladders, staircases or ramps are provided, as the case may b e, for safe access to and egress 
form excavation where the depth of such excavation exceeds one point 1.5 m and such ladders, 
staircases or ramps comply with the relevant national standards. 
11.19. TRENCHES 
a. A trench or excavation shall be protected against  falling of a person by suitable measures if the 
depth of such trench or excavation exceeds 1.5 m and such protection shall be an improved 
protection in accordance with the design and drawing of a Professional Engineer, where such 
depth exceeds 4 m; 
b. Where the depth of a trench requires two lengths of sheet piling, one above the other, the lower 
piling shall be set inside the bottom strings or wales of the upper piling and such sheet piling shall 
be driven down and braced as the excavation continues; 
c. All metal sheet piles used in excavation or a trench shall be welded end -to-end and secured by 
other similar means. 
11.20. POSITIONING AND USE OF MACHINERY: 
              Any machinery used in excavation and tunneling work shall be positioned and operated in such a 
way that such machinery will not endanger the operator of such machinery or any other person 
in the vicinity.  
11.21. BREATHING APPARATUS: 
 Suitable breathing apparatus shall be provided to a building worker while working in 
compressed air environment for his use at excavation or tunneling work and such breathing 
apparatus shall be maintained in good working condition at all times. 
81  
  
11.22. SAFETY MEASURES FOR TUNNELING OPERATIONS  
a. Where there is a danger of falling or sliding of material from the roof fa ce or wall of a tunnel, 
adequate measures such as shoring, supporting by means of rock bolts, segments or steel sets 
shall be taken for the safety of building workers; 
b. The excavated areas shall be made safe by use of suitably designed and installed steel s ets, rock 
bolts or similar other safe means; 
c.   The responsible person shall examine and inspect the workplaces in a tunnel before the 
commencement of work in such tunnel and at regular intervals thereafter to ensure safety of the 
building workers in such tunnel; 
d. The portal areas of a tunnel with loose soil or rock, likely to cause injury to a person shall be 
adequately protected with supports. 
11.23. SURROUNDINGS OF A SHAFT 
a. Surroundings of a shaft used in excavation or tunnel work shall be protected from being 
washed away by construction of sufficient height; 
b. Where a building worker is required to enter a shaft at an excavation or tunneling work, safe 
means of access shall be provided for such entry; 
c. Every shaft at excavation or tunneling work shall be provided with a steel casing, concrete 
piping, timber shoring or other materials of adequate strength for the safety of building 
workers working in such shaft; 
d. Such casing and bracing shall be provided to shafts at an excavation or tunneling work 
according to the appropriate design for such casing and bracing; 
e. A reinforced concrete raft and beam shall be provided around the opening of a shaft at an 
excavation or tunneling work if the ground surrounding such opening is unstable or unsafe. 
11.24. LIFT FOR SHAFT: 
 Lift shall be  provided for transport of building workers and materials or articles at an 
excavation or tunneling work required to descend more than 50 m in a shaft. 
11.25. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION 
Reliable and effective means of communication such as telephone or walkie -talkie shall be 
provided and maintained in working order for arranging better and effective communication 
at an excavation or tunneling work at the following locations, namely: 
i. Working chamber of an excavation; 
ii. Intervals of hundred meters along the tunnel; 
iii. Working chamber side of a man lock near the door of such man lock; 
iv. Interior or each chamber of a man lock; 
v. Location conspicuous lock attendant’s situation; 
vi. A compressor plant; 
82  
  
vii. A first-aid station, and 
viii. Outside the portal or the top of a shaft; 
ix. Such number of bells and whistles shall be made available at all times at the locations as are 
necessary for the safety of persons at such locations. 
11.26. SIGNALS:  
The standard audio or video signals shall be used in excavation or tunneling work and 
conspicuously located or displayed near entrance to the workplace and in such other locations 
as may be necessary to bring such signals to notice of all building workers employed in such 
excavation or tunneling work. 
11.27. CLEARANCES 
a. The minimum lateral clearances of 0.5 m shall be maintained between any part of a vehicle 
and any fixture or any equipment used in an excavation or tunneling work after allowing the 
throw or swing of such fixture or equipment; 
b. The overhead clearance for a locomotive drive at excavation or tunneling work s hall not be 
less than 1.20 m above the seat of such driver and not less than 2 m above the platform where 
such driver stands or of any other dimension in accordance with the approved standard. 
11.28. SHELTERS:  
The adequate number of shelters for the safeguard of the building workers are provided where, 
in the course of working, they are liable to be struck by a moving vehicle or other material 
handling equipment in a tunnel.  
11.29. USE OF INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE:  
No internal combustion engine shall be used underground in excavation or tunneling work 
unless such engine is so constructed that the air entering the engine gets cleared before entry 
and the engine emits no fumes or sparks. 
11.30.INFLAMMABLE OILS:  
Inflammable oils with the flash point below the working temperature that is likely to be 
encountered in a tunnel shall not be used in excavation or tunneling work. 
11.31. COUPLING AND HOSES:  
All high -pressure hydraulic hoses and couplings shall be adequately protected against any    
possible damage in excavation or tunneling work. 
11.32. HOSE INSTALLATION: 
 All hydraulic lines and plants working at a temperature exceeding 750 c shall be protected by 
adequate insulation or otherwise against accidental human contact in excavation or tunneling 
work. 
11.33. FIRE RESISTANT HOSES: 
83  
  
 No fire hydraulic hoses other than fire resistant hydraulic hoses are used when hydraulically 
activated machinery and equipment are employed in tunnels. 
11.34. FLAMEPROOF EQUIPMENT:  
Only flameproof equipment of appropriate type as per approved standards shall be used where 
there is a danger of flammable or explosive atmosphere being prevalent inside the tunnel.  
11.35. STORING OF OIL AND FUEL UNDERGROUND: 
 All oils, greases or fuels stored underground in excavation or tunneling work shall be kept in 
tightly sealed containers and in fire resistant areas at safe distances away from explosive and 
other flammable chemical and appropriate flameproof installation shall be used in such storage 
areas.  
11.36. USE OF GASES UNDERGROUND  
a. Petrol or liquefied petroleum gas or any other flammable substances shall not be used or stored 
inside the tunnel except with the prior approval of the Project Engineer; 
b.  After the use of the petroleum or liquefied petroleum gas, or highly inflammable substances, all 
remaining petroleum or liquefied pe troleum gas or highly inflammable substances shall be 
removed immediately from such tunnel; 
c.  No oxy-acetylene gas shall be used in a compressed air environment in excavation or tunneling 
work. 
 
11.37. WATER FOR FIRE FIGHTING 
a. Adequate number of water outlets shall be provided on excavation or tunneling work and readily 
made accessible throughout the tunnel for fire fighting purposes and such water outlets shall be 
maintained for effective fire lighting; 
b.  All air locks shall be equipped with fire fighting facilities at excavation or tunneling work; 
c. An audible fire alarm shall be provided to warn the building workers whenever a fire breaks out 
on an excavation or tunneling work; 
d. Adequate number and types of fire extinguishers, in accordance with relevant national standards, 
shall be provided and made readily available to fight any outbreak of fire at an excavation or 
tunneling work; 
e. Fire extinguishers with vaporizing liquids and high pressure carbon dioxide shall not be used in 
tunnels or other confined spaces; 
f. The instructions regarding steps to be followed to fight outbreak of fire, at an excavation or 
tunneling work, written in Hindi or local language understood by the majority of the building 
workers employed on such excavation or tunneling work, shall be displayed at conspicuous and 
vulnerable places of such excavation or tunneling work. 
11.38. FLOODING  
84  
  
a. Water tight bulkhead doors shall be installed at the entrance of a tunnel to prevent flooding during 
a tunneling work where more than one tunnel is driven from a shaft; 
b. All necessary measures shall be taken to ensure that no building worker is trapped in any isolated 
section of a tunnel when any bulkhead door of such tunnel is closed; 
c. Where there is likelihood of flooding or wate r rushing into a tunnel during a tunneling work, 
arrangements shall be made for immediate starting of water pumps to take out water of such 
flooding or water rushing and for giving alert signals to the building workers and other persons to 
keep them away from danger. 
d. Airtight steel curtains shall be provided in areas liable to flooding at tunneling work and in case of 
descending tunnels, such curtains shall be provided in the top half of such tunnels to ensure the 
retention of pockets of air for rescue purpose. 
11.39. REST SHELTERS 
a. Where building workers employed in a compressed air environment in a tunneling work are 
required to remain at the work site for one hour or more after de -compression from pressure 
exceeding one bar, adequate and suitable facilities shall be provided for such building workers to 
rest; 
a. Every man-lock, medical-lock and any other facility inside these locks in a tunneling work 
shall be maintained in a clean state and in good repairs; 
b.  A first-aid room shall be provided and readily available at a construction site of a tunneling 
work; 
c.  Each man-lock attendant at the station shall be provided with a first-aid box.  
11.40. PERMISSIBLE LIMIT OF EXPOSURE OF CHEMICALS 
a. The working environment in a tunnel or a shaft in which building workers are employed shall not 
contain any of the hazardous substances in concentrations beyond the permissible limits; 
b. The responsible person referred to shall conduct necessary test before the commencement of a 
tunneling work for the day and at suitable intervals as fixed by the Engineer in -charge, to ensure 
that the permissible limits of exposure are not exceeded and a record of such test shall be 
maintained and made available for inspection.  
11.41. VENTILATION:  
             All working areas in a free air tunnel shall be provided with the approved ventilation system and 
the fresh air supplied in such tunnel shall not be less than 6 m3 per minute for each building worker 
employed underground in such tunnel and the free air-flow movement inside such tunnel not less 
than 9 m3 per minute. 
11.42. AIR SUPPLY INTAKE POINT:   
              The air intake points for all air compression shall be located at places where such intake air does 
not get contaminated with dust, fumes, vapor and exhaust gases or other contaminants. 
11.43. EMERGENCY GENERATORS 
85  
  
a. Every compressed air system in a tunnel shall be provided with emergency power supply system 
for maintaining continued supply of compressed air in such compressed air system, which shall be 
capable of operating air compressor and ancillary systems of such compressed air system; 
b. The emergency power supply system shall be maintained and made readily available at all times. 
11.45. AIR MAINS: 
              Every air- main supplying  air to the working chamber, man -lock or medical- lock used at an 
excavation or tunneling work shall be protected against accidental damage and where it is not 
practicable to provide such protection, a stand-by air-main shall be provided. 
11.46. BULKHEAD AND AIR LOCKS 
a. A bulk head or air tight diaphragms retaining compressed air, when used within a tunnel or a shaft, 
shall be constructed to withstand the maximum pressure at 1.25 the maximum working pressure 
of such bulk head or diaphragm and such bulk head or diaphragm shall be tested before its each 
use by a responsible person to ensure that such bulk head or diaphragm is in proper working order; 
b.  Such responsible person shall keep the record of each test and such record shall be produced for 
inspection. 
c.  The bulk head or diaphragm shall be made of sound material of adequate strength, which shall 
be able to withstand the maximum pressure on which they are subjected to at any time of their 
use; 
d.  A bulkhead anchorage and air lick shall be tested at its work plac e at an excavation or tunneling 
work immediately after their installation at such place. 
11.47. DIAPHRAGM:  
             All diaphragms, which are in the form of horizontal decks across a shaft used at excavation or 
tunneling work, shall be securely anchored 
11.48.PORTABLE ELECTRICAL HAND TOOLS:  
             All portable electrical hand tools and inspection lamps used underground or in a confined 
space shall be operated at a voltage not exceeding 24 V.  
11.49. CIRCUIT BREAKER   
a. Adequate numbers of differential ground fault circuit breakers shall be installed for every electrical 
distribution system and its sub-systems used at an excavation or tunneling; 
b. Work and the sensitivity of each of circuit breaker shall be adjusted in accordance with the 
requirement set out in accordance with the approved standards; 
c. No semi-enclosed fuse unit shall be used in underground place.  
11.50. TRANSFORMER:  
             The contractor shall ensure no transformer is used in any section of a tunnel under compressed air 
unless such transformer is of the dry type and conforms to the approved standards. 
11.51. LIVE WIRES:  
86  
  
              There shall be no exposed live wire in working areas at an excavation or tunneling work which are 
accessible to building workers other than those authorized to work on such live lines. 
11.52. WELDING SETS:  
               All welding sets used in a tunnel shall be of adequate capacity and of suitable type, duly approved.  
11.53. QUALITY AND QUANTITY  
a. Every working chamber at an excavation or tunneling work where compressed air is used, the 
supply of such air shall be maintained at not less than 0.3 m 3 per minute per person working 
therein; 
b. A reserve supply of compressed air shall be made available at all times for man-locks and medical 
locks used at a tunneling work; 
c. The air supplied in a compressed air environment at a tunneling work shall be, as far as practicable, 
free from contaminants, namely, dust, fumes and other toxic substances. 
11.54. WORKING TEMPERATURE: 
 The temperature in any working cham ber at an excavation or tunneling work where building 
workers are employed shall not exceed 290 c and the arrangement shall be maintained for kipping 
records in which the temperatures measured by dry bulb and wet bulb inside such working chamber 
once in every hour and for producing such records for inspection on demand.  
11.55. MAN-LOCKS AND WORKING IN COMPRESSED AIR ENVIRONMENT  
a. Man-locks used at a tunneling work shall be of adequate strength, made of sound material and 
designed to withstand any pressure, interna l or external, to which it may be subjected in the 
normal use or in an emergency; 
b. Doors of man -locks at an excavation or tunneling work shall be made of steel and used at a 
tunneling work for keeping the work airtight and devices shall be provided for seal ing the doors 
when such locks are under pressure. The anchorage of a man -lock used at tunneling work shall 
have adequate strength to withstand the pressure exerted by air on the man-lock. There shall be 
adequate room available for the workers for working in the man-locks; 
c. Where work is carried out in any compressed air tunnel, a Man -lock in accordance with the 
approved standards shall be used; 
d. Where a man -lock is used, safety Instructions in Hindi and in local language understood by 
majority of building workers employed there, shall be displaced at conspicuous places; 
e. Except in an emergency, compression and de -compression operations shall be carried out in a 
man-lock and in an emergency any material-lock may be used; 
f. A record of compression and de-compression shall be kept in writing and produced for inspection 
on demand;  
g. Material lock shall be used with the permission of the Engineer in-charge where it is impracticable 
to install both the man-lock and the material-lock at; 
h. The man-lock at tunneling work shall not be used for any purpose  
87  
  
i. other than compression or de-compression of building workers; 
j. No de-canting of building workers at tunneling work shall be carried  
k. out without prior approval of the Engineer in-charge except in an emergency; 
l. In case a building worker collapses or is taken ill during his de-compression in a man-lock, the lock 
attendant of such man -lock shall raise the pressure to a level equal to the maximum pressure 
which that building worker was exposed to in the working chamber prior to such de-compression 
and such lock attendant shall immediately report the matter relating to such collapse to the 
medical lock attendant and medical officer on duty; 
m. A building worker who had previously received training with a trained building worker to work in 
a compressed air environment at tunneling work shall be employed to work independently in such 
a compressed air environment; 
n. A building worker who had undergone three de-compressions from a pressure exceeding one bar 
in a period of eight hours at tunneling work shall not be allowed to enter a compressed air 
environment except for the purpose of carrying out rescue work; 
o. A building worker employed in a compressed air environment for a period of eight hours in a day 
at tunneling work shall not be employed again in such environment unless he has spent not less 
than twelve consecutive hours of rest at atmospheric pressure; 
p. No building worker shall be engaged in a compressed air environment at a pressure, which 
exceeds three bars at a tunneling work unless prior permission, in writing, has been obtained from 
the Engineer in-charge; 
q. No building worker shall be employed in a compressed air environment for more than fourteen 
consecutive days in a month; 
r. A register of employment o f all building workers in compressed air environment shall be 
maintained; 
s. An identification badge shall be supplied to a building worker employed in compressed air 
environment; 
t. The badge of a building worker shall contain particulars of his name, location of the medical-lock 
allotted to him for work, the telephone number of the Construction Medical Officer concerned for 
his treatment and the instructions in case of his illness of unknown and doubtful causes; 
u. Record of all identification badges supplied to building shall be kept in a register; 
v. Every building worker whose name appears in the register shall wear the badge supplied to him 
at all times during his duty hours; 
w. Suitable warning signs shall be displayed in the compressed air for the prohibition of the following, 
namely: 
i) Use of alcoholic drinks; 
ii) Use and carrying of lighters, matches or other sources of ignition; 
iii) Smoking; and 
88  
  
iv) No entry to person who has consumed alcoholic drink 
11.56. SAFETY INSTRUCTION: 
 All building workers employed in compressed air environment at tunneling work shall follow the 
instructions issued for their safety in the course of such employment. 
11.57. MEDICAL-LOCK 
a. A suitably constructed medical lock shall be maintained at tunneling work where building workers 
are employed in a working chamber at a pressure exceeding one bar; 
b. Where more than one hundred building workers are employed in a compressed air working 
environment exceeding one bar at tunneling work, one medical -lock is provided for every one 
hundred building workers or part thereo f and such medical lock shall be situated as near as 
possible to the main-lock used at such tunneling work.  
89  
  
12.0. SAFETY IN PILING WORK 
12.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS  
a. All pile driving equipment shall be of good design and sound construction, taking into account the 
ergonomic principles and properly maintained; 
b. A pile driver shall be firmly supported on a heavy timber sill, concrete bed or other secured 
foundation; 
c. In case a pile driver is required to be erected in dangerous proximity to an electrical conductor, all 
necessary precautions shall be taken to ensure safety; 
d. The hoses of steam and air hammer shall be securely lashed to such hammer so as to prevent 
them from whipping in case of connection or break; 
e. Adequate precaution shall be taken to prevent the pile driver from over turning and hammer from 
missing the pile; 
f. A responsible person for inspecting pile -driving equipment shall inspect such equipment before 
taking it into use and takes all appropriate measures as required for the safety of building workers 
before commencing piling work by such equipment; 
g. Where there is any question of stability of a structure for its adjoining areas to be piled, such 
structure shall be supported, where necessary, by underpinning, sheet pilling, shoring, and bracing 
or by othe r means to ensure safety and stability of such structure and to prevent injury to any 
person.  
12.2. PROTECTION OF OPERATOR: 
 The operator of every pile driving equipment shall be protected from falling objects, steam, 
cinders or water by substantially covering or otherwise or by other means. 
12.3. INSTRUCTION TO AND SUPERVISION OF BUILDING WORKERS WORKING ON PILE -DRIVING 
EQUIPMENT: 
 Every building worker working on a pile driving equipment shall be given instructions   regarding 
safe work procedure to be followed in p iling operation and shall be supervised by a responsible 
person throughout such work. 
12.4. ENTRY OF UNAUTHORIZED PERSON: 
The contractor shall ensure at a construction site of a buildings or other construction work that all 
piling areas where pile -driving equipment is in use are effectively cordoned off to prevent entry 
of unauthorized persons.  
12.5. INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF PILE DRIVING EQUIPMENT 
a. Pile-driving equipment shall not be taken into use until it has been inspected by a responsible 
person and found to be safe for such use; 
b. A responsible person for such inspection at suitable intervals to ensure safety to the building 
worker working on such equipment shall inspect pile driving equipment in use; 
90 
c. All pile lines and pulley blocks shall be inspected by a responsible person before the beginning of
each shift of piling operations.
12.6. OPERATION OF PILE-DRIVING EQUIPMENT 
a. Only experienced and trained building worker shall operate pile driving so as to avoid   any
probable danger from such operation;
b. Pile-driving operations shall be governed generally prevalent and accepted signals so as to prevent
any probable danger from such operations;
c. Every building worker employed in pile driving operation or in the vicinity of such pile driving
operation shall wear ear protection and safety helmet or hardhat and safety shoes;
d. Piles shall be prepared at a distance, at least equal to twice the length of the longest pile, from the
place of pile-driving operations;
e. When a pile driver is not in use, the hammer of such pile driver shall be blocked at the bottom of
the heads of such pile driver.
12.7. WORKING PLATFORM ON PILING FRAMES: 
Where a structural tower supports the lead of a pile driver, leads at which it is necessary for the 
building workers to work and such platforms except on  the hammer of such pile driver or lead 
sides of such platform and where such platforms cannot be provided with such railing and toe 
boards, a safety belt shall be provided to each such building worker. 
12.8. PILE TESTING 
a. The testing of pile shall be condu cted under the supervision of a responsible person for such
testing;
b. All practicable measures like displaying of waning notices, barricading the area and other similar
measures shall be taken to protect the area where the pile testing is carried out;
c. Entry to a pile testing area shall be prohibited to general public to ensure safety.
12.9. PILING, SHORING AND BRACING 
a. Planks used for sheet piling in excavation or tunneling work shall be of sound material with
adequate strength;
b. Shores and braces used in excavation or tunneling work shall be of adequate dimensions and so
placed as to be effective for their intended purposes;
c. Earth supported shores or braces used in excavation or tunneling work shall bear against a footing
of sufficient area and stability to prevent the shifting of such shores or braces.
91  
  
 
13.0. SAFETY IN THE ERECTION, USE AND DISMANTLING OF SCAFFOLDS 
13.1. SCAFFOLD CONSTRUCTION 
a. Every scaffold and every component thereof shall be of adequate construction, made of sound 
material and free from defects and safe for the purposes for which it is intended for use; 
b. In case bamboo is used for scaffolding, such bamboo shall be of suitable quality, good condition, 
free from protruding knots and stripped off to avoid any injury to building workers during handling 
such bamboo; 
c. All metal scaffolds used in building or other construction work shall conform to the approved 
standards; 
13.2. SUPERVISION BY A RESPONSIBLE PERSON: No scaffold shall be erected, added, altered or dismantled 
except under the supervision of a responsible person.  
13.3. Maintenance 
a. The scaffold used in building or other construction work shall be maintained in good repairs and 
the measures taken against its accidental displacement or any other hazard; 
b. No scaffold or part thereof shall be partly dismantled and allowed to remain in such a condition 
unless – 
i) The stability or safety of the remaining portion of such scaffold has been ensured by a 
responsible person for the safety of such scaffolds; 
ii) In case the remaining part of such scaffold cannot be used by the building workers, necessary 
warning notice written in Hindi and in a language understood by the majority of the building 
workers that such scaffold is unfit for use, shall be displayed at the place where such scaffold 
is erected. 
13.4. STANDARDS, LEDGERS, PUTLOGS 
a. Standards of a scaffold shall be plumb, where practicable, fixed sufficiently close together to 
secure the stability of such scaffold having regard to all the possible working situations and 
conditions for the intended use of such scaffold, spaced, as clos e as practicable, to ensure safety 
and stability of such scaffold; 
b. Adequate measures are taken to, prevent displacement of a standard of a scaffold either by 
providing sole plate or a base plate, as necessary; 
c. Ledgers of metal scaffold are placed at vertical intervals with due regard to safety and stability of 
such scaffold; 
d. Bamboo ledgers are kept as nearly as possible and are placed and fastened to the standards of a 
scaffold with due regard to the stability of such scaffold. 
13.5. WORKING PLATFORM 
92 
a. Working platform shall be provided around the face or edge of a building adjoining at every upper
most permanent floor of such building under construction and at any level where construction
work of such building is carried out;
b. A platform shall be designed to suit the number of building workers to be employed on each ba y
of a scaffold work on such platform and the materials or articles and tools to be carried with them
in such bay;
c. The safe working load and the number of building workers to be employed in each bay of a scaffold 
shall be displayed for the information of all the building workers employed at such construction
site.
13.6. BOARD, PLANK AND DECKING 
a. Board, plank and decking used in the construction of a working platform shall be of uniform size
and strength and shall be capable of supporting the load and number of building workers keeping
in view the safety of such building workers;
b. Metal decking, which forms part of a working platform, shall be provided with non-skid surface;
c. No board or plank which forms the working platform shall be projected beyond its end support
unless it is effectively prevented from tripping or lifting and board, plank or decking shall be
fastened and secured;
d. At any one time, not more than two working platforms per bay, shall be used to support building
workers or materials or articles at such bay;
e. Adequate measures shall be taken to prevent injury which may be caused by falling material and
objects by using safety nets or other suitable means;
f. Concrete, other debris or materials shall not be allowed to accumulate at any platform on a
scaffold;
g. Where a work is to be done at the end of a wall, working platform at such workplace shall be faced
or, wherever practicable, at least 0.6 m beyond the end of such wall.
13.7. REPAIR OF DAMAGED SCAFFOLD 
a. No building worker shall be permitted to work on a scaffold that has been damaged or wakened
unless adequate safety measures have been taken to ensure the safety of such building worker;
b. Necessary warning signs shall be displayed at such places where rep airs of scaffold are
undertaken.
13.8. OPENING 
a. There shall be no opening in any working platform except for allowing access to such working
platform;
b. Wherever opening on a platform is unavoidable, necessary measures for protection against failing
of objects or building workers from such platform shall be taken by providing suitable safety nets,
belts or any other similar means;
c. Access from one working platform to another platform on a scaffold, if required, shall be provided
with suitable and safe ladder for the use of building workers working on such platforms;
93  
  
d. Every opening or shaft in the floor shall be provided with suitable means to protect the fall of a 
person or material by providing suitable fencing or railing of height not less than 900 mm. 
13.9. GUARDRAILS: Every side of a working platform from which a person is liable to fall shall be 
provided with suitable and safe guardrails and toe board of adequate strength to prevent fall of 
any building worker, material or tools from such platform. 
13.10. SCAFFOLD USED BY BUILDING WORKERS OF DIFFERENT EMPLOYERS 
a. Where a scaffold or a part of a scaffold is used, which has previously been used by another 
employer for his building workers, such scaffold or part thereof shall be used only after its 
inspection and examination by a responsible person for ensuring that such scaffold or part thereof 
is safe and fit for such use; 
b.  If any rectification, alteration or modification in a scaffold or part thereof, needed to suit its use, 
shall be made in consultation with the responsible person. 
13.11. PROTECTION AGAINST ELECTRIC POWER LINE: 
 The contractor shall ensure that all necessary and practical measures for protection are taken to 
prevent any building worker, working on a scaffold, from coming into contact with the electric wires 
or dangerous equipment. 
13.12. SCREENING NET AND WIRE NETS:  
Where a scaffold is erected in an area where the construction activities may pose hazards to 
pedestrians or vehicular traffic nearby from the falling of objects, wire nets or screening nets shall 
be used to envelope such scaffold. 
13.13. TOWER SCAFFOLD 
a. The height of every tower scaffold used in building or other construction work shall not be more 
than eight times the lesser to the base dimension of such scaffold; 
b. A tower scaffold shall be lashed to a building or a fixed structure before being used by the building 
workers; 
c. Any tower scaffold which can be moved or castered shall be – 
i) Constructed with due regard to the stability and, if necessary, adequately weighted at the 
base; 
ii) Used only on plain and even surface; and 
iii) Has casters provided with positive locking devices to hold such scaffold in position; 
d. No building worker shall remain on board scaffold or leave behind tools and material when it is 
being shifted from one position to another position. 
 
13.14. GEAR FOR SUSPENSION OF SCAFFOLD 
a. Chains, ropes or lifting gears used for suspension of a scaffold shall be of adequate strength, made 
of sound material and suitable for the purpose of their use and maintained in good repairs; 
b. Chains, wires, ropes or metal tubes used for the suspension of a scaffold shall be:  
94 
i) Properly and securely fastened to every anchorage point and to the scaffold ledgers of othe r
main supporting members used for the support of such scaffold; and
ii) So positioned as to ensure stability of the scaffold.
13.15. TRESTLE SCAFFOLD AND CANTILEVER SCAFFOLD 
a. No trestle scaffold shall be constructed with more than three tiers or if its working platform is
more than 4.5 m above the ground or floor or other surface upon which such scaffold is erected;
b. Trestle scaffold shall be designed by professional engineer and shall have the approval of the
Engineer in-charge before being taken into use.
c. No trestle scaffold shall be erected on a suspended scaffold;
d. No cantilever or jib scaffold shall be used unless it is adequately supported, fixed and anchored
on opposite side of its support and have out triggers of adequate length and, where necessary
sufficiently, supported and braced to ensure safety and stability of such scaffold;
e. No working platform resting on bearers let into a wall at one end and without other support shall
be used unless such bearers are of adequate strength, braced through the wall and securely
fastened on the other side.
13.16. SCAFFOLD SUPPORTED BY BUILDING 
a. No part of a building shall be used as support or part of a scaffold unless such part of the building
is made of sufficient strength and made of sound material to afford safe support;
b. Overhanging eaves gutters shall not be used for supporting scaffold;
c. Suspended scaffold shall be made of in accordance with the approved standards before being used 
by the building workers.
13.17. USE OF WINCHES AND CLIMBERS FOR SUSPENDED SCAFFOLD 
a. No scaffold shall be raised or lowered by winches or climbers unless such scaffold is made of sound 
material, adequate strength and has been tested and certified safe for use of winches or climbe r
by a competent person before being taken into use;
b. All suspended scaffolds counter- balanced by counter weights shall be of approved types before
being taken into use for building or other construction work;
c. The working platform of a suspended scaffold shall be securely fastened to the building o r
structure as to be safe and to prevent such platform from swing;
d. The safe working load that a suspended scaffold can carry, shall be displayed where such scaffold
is being used
13.18. SAFETY DEVICES FOR SUSPENDED SCAFFOLD 
a. Every suspended scaffold, raised or lowered by the winches or climbers, shall be provided at each
of its suspension point with a safety rope with automatic safety device mounted on each of such
rope so that such safety rope with such automatic safety device support the platform of such
95  
  
scaffold in the event of failure of the primary suspension wire ropes, winches, climbers or any part 
of the mechanism used for raising or lowering such suspended scaffold; 
b. Provided that the clause (a) shall not apply  - 
i) Where the platform of such scaffold is supported at two independent suspension wire rope 
at or near each end of such platform so that in the event of failure of one of such suspension 
wire rope, the other wire rope is capable of sustaining the weights of such platform and its 
load and prevent it from tilting; or 
ii) Where a system is incorporated which operates automatically to support the platform of such 
scaffold and its load in the event of failure of the primary suspension wire rope of such 
scaffold. 
 
96  
  
14.0. SAFETY IN THE ERECTION OF STRUCTURAL FRAME & 
FORMWORK 
 
14.1. GENERAL PROVISION  
a. The trained building worker under the direct supervision of a person, responsible for structural 
frame and formwork, shall be employed for erection of such structural frame or formwork, 
dismantling of building and structure and performance of and engineering work formwork, false 
work and shoring work; 
b. Adequate measures shall be taken to guard against hazards arising from any temporary state of 
weakness or unsuitability of a structure. 
14.2. FORMWORK, FALSE WORK AND SHORING  
a. Formwork and false work shall be so designed, constructed and maintained that such formwork 
and false work are able to support the load that may be imposed on them;  
b. Such formwork shall be so erected that working platform, means of access, bracings, means of 
handling and stabilizing could easily be fixed with such formwork. 
14.3. ERECTION OR DISMANTLING OF STEEL AND PREFABRICATED 
a. Erection or dismantling of any pre-fabricated structure shall be made safe against danger by using 
appropriate means such as ladders, gangways or fixed platforms, buckets, boatswains chair or 
other appropriate means suspended from lifting appli ances, safety harness, life lines, catch nets 
or catch platforms, power-operated mobile working platforms etc.; 
b. The work of erection or dismantling of buildings or structures or formwork or false work or shoring 
or any other civil engineering work shall be  carried out by trained building workers under the 
supervision of a person responsible for such work; 
c. Steel or prefabricated structures shall be so designed and made that such structures can be safely 
transported or erected; and weight of each unit of such structures shall be clearly marked on such 
unit; 
d. The design of each such part shall maintain stability of each part of the structures referred to in 
clauses above when erected, and to prevent danger, the design shall explicitly take into account – 
i) The rel evant conditions and methods of attachment in the operations of stripping, 
transport, storing and temporary support during erection of such parts;  
ii) Safeguards, such as provision of railings with working platforms, and for mounting such 
railings and platforms easily on the structural steel or prefabricated parts; 
e. The hooks and softer devices built in or provided on the structural steel or prefabricate parts 
that are required for lifting and transporting such parts shall be so shaped, dimensioned and 
positioned to withstand the stresses to which such hooks or other devices are subjected; 
97 
f. Prefabricated parts made of concrete shall not stripped or erected before such concrete has
set and hardened sufficiently to the extent provided for in the plans, and such parts are
examined by the responsible person for any sign of damage before their use;
g. Store-places shall be so constructed that –
i) There shall be no risk of structural steel of prefabricated parts falling or overturning;
ii) Storage conditions shall generally ensure stability and avoid damage having regard to the
method of storage and atmospheric conditions; and
iii) Racks shall be set on firm ground and designed so that units cannot move accidentally in
such store-places;
h. Structural steel or pre -fabricated parts shall not be subjected to stresses prejudicial to their
stability while they are stored or transported or raised or set down;
i. Tongs, clamps and other appliances for lifting structural steel and prefabricated part shall be:
i) In such shape and dimensions as to ensure a secure grip without damaging and marked with
the maximum permissible load in the most unfavourable lifting conditions; and
ii) Structural steel or pre -fabricated parts shall be lifted by such methods and appliances that
prevent them from spinning accidentally;
j. Structural steel or pre -fabricated parts shall be provided with railings and working platforms
before raising such parts to prevent any danger of falling of building workers, materials or articles
at the time of any work with such parts;
k. All reas onably practical measures shall be taken to avoid injury to building workers, building
structure or equipment while structural steel or pre -fabricated parts are handled or stored or
transported or raised or lowered;
l. Structures shall not be worked on during violent storms or high winds or any other such hazardous
situation;
m. The risk of falling to which building workers, moving on high or sloping girders, may be exposed is
limited by all means of adequate collective protection or by the use of a safety harness which shall
be well secured to a sufficiently strong supports;
n. Structural steel parts, which are to be erected at a great height, shall, as far as practicable, be
assembled on the ground;
o. When structural steel or pre -fabricated parts are being erected, a  sufficiently extended area
underneath the workplace shall be barricaded or guarded;
p. Steel trusses, which are being erected, shall be adequately shored, braced or guyed until they are
permanently secured in position;
q. Structural members shall not be forced into place by the hoisting machine while any building
worker is in such a position that he is likely to be injured by such operation.
14.4. FORMWORK 
98 
a. All formwork shall be properly designed keeping in view the safety of building workers, buildings
or structures;
b. A responsible person for structural frame and formwork shall –
i. Inspect and examine the material, timber, structural steel and scaffolding for its strength and
suitability before being taken into use;
ii. Lay-down procedures to cover all stages of such structural frame and formwork;
iii. Supervise such structural frame and formwork;
iv. Take all necessary steps or measure to correct any situation with a view to prevent accident
or dangerous occurrence during performances of such structural frame and formwork.
14.5. DE-SHORING 
a. When shoring is removed, sufficient props shall be left in place of such shoring to   prevent an y
possible hazard; and
b. Deshoring shall be adequately braced and tied together with support to prevent any hazard.
99 
15.0. SAFETY IN CONCRETE WORK 
15.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING USE OF CONCRETE 
a. All construction with the use of concrete or reinforced concrete shall be based on plans including
specification of steel and concrete and other material to be used in such construction –
i. Giving technical details regarding methods for safe placing and handing of such materials and
indicating the type, quality and arrangement of each part of a structure of such construction;
and
ii. Explaining the sequence of steps to be taken for completion of such construction;
b. Formwork and shores used for concrete work shall be structurally safe and properly braced or tied
together so as to maintain position and shape of formwork or shores;
c. Formwork structure used shall have sufficient catwalks and other secure access for inspection of
such structure if such structure is in two or more tiers;
d. No machinery or any object should fall below by using wire nets, screen nets etc.
15.2. PREPARATION AND POURING OF CONCRETE AND ERECTION OF CONCRETE STRUCTURE 
a. A building worker handling cement or concrete shall –
i) Wear close-fitting clothing, gloves, helmet or hardhat, safety goggles, proper footwear and
respirator or mask to protect himself from danger in such handling;
ii) Keep as much of his body covered as is required to protect himself from danger in such
handling;
iii) Take all necessary precautions to keep cement and concrete away from his skin in such
handling;
b. Lime pits shall be fenced or enclosed and filled and emptied by such devices, which do not require
workers to go into the pit;
c. Moving parts of the elevators, hoists screens bunkers, chutes, grouting equipment used fo r
concrete work and of other equipment used for storing, transport and other handling ingredients
of concrete shall be securely fenced to avoid contact of building workers with such moving parts;
d. Screw conveyors used for cement, lime and other dusty materials shall be completely enclosed.
15.3. BUCKETS 
a. Concrete buckets used with cranes or aerial cableways shall be free from projections from which
accumulations of concrete could fall;
b. Movements of concrete buckets shall be governed by signals necessary to avoid any danger by
such movements.
100  
  
15.4. PIPES AND PUMPS 
a. A scaffolding carrying a pipe for pumped concrete shall be strong enough to support such pipe 
at a time when such pipe is filled with concre te or water or any other liquid and carry the 
combined load of the all the building workers who may be on such scaffold at such time, safely; 
b. Every pipe for carrying pumped concrete shall be – 
i) Securely anchored at its end point and at each curve on it; 
ii) Provided near the top of such pipe with an air release valve; 
iii) Securely attached to a pump nozzle by a bolted collar or other adequate means; 
c. The operation of concrete pumps shall be governed by standard signals; 
d. Building workers employed around a concrete pump shall wear safety goggles; 
15.5. MIXING AND POURING OF CONCRETE  
a. The concrete mixture shall not contain any material, which may unduly affect the setting of such 
concrete, weaken such concrete or corrode steel used with such concrete; 
b. When dry ingredients of concrete are being mixed in confined spaces such as silos – 
i) The dust shall be exhausted at the time of such mixing and 
ii) In case the dust the dust cannot be exhausted, as specified, the workers shall wear respirators 
at the time of such mixing; 
c. When concrete is being tipped from buckets, building workers shall be kept out of the range of 
any kickbacks of such buckets; 
d. Loads shall not be dumped or placed on settling concrete. 
15.6. CONCRETE PANELS AND SLABS 
a. All parts of a concrete panel or concrete slab shall be hoisted uniformly; 
b. Concrete panels shall be adequately braced in their final positions and such bracings shall remain 
in such positions until such panels are adequately supported by other parts of the construction for 
which such panels are used; 
c. Temporary bracings of concreter panels shall be securely fastened to prevent any part of such 
panels from falling when such panels are being moved. 
15.7. STRESSED AND TENSIONED ELEMENTS 
a. Building workers shall not stand directly over jacking equipment while stressing of concrete girders 
and beams is being done; 
b. A pre – stressed concrete unit shall not bee handled except at points on such unit and by the 
devices specified for such work by the manufacture of such devices; 
c. During transport, pre-stressed concrete girders or concrete beams shall be kept upright by bracing 
or other effective means; 
101  
  
d. Anchor fittings for pre -tensioned strands of pre -stressed concrete girders of concert beams are 
kept in a safe condition in accordance with the instruction of manufacturer of such anchor fittings; 
e. Building workers shall not stand behind jacks or in line with tensioning elements and jacking 
equipment during tensioning operations of pre-stressed concrete girders of concrete beams; 
f. Building workers do not cut wires of pre –  stressed concrete girders or concrete beams under 
tension before such concrete used of such girder or beams is sufficiently hardened. 
15.8. VIBRATORS 
a. A building worker, who is in good physical condition, shall operate vibrators used in concreting 
work; 
b. All practical measures shall be taken to reduce the amount of vibration transmitted to the 
operators working in concreting work and 
c. When electric vibrators are used in concreting work 
i) Such vibrators shall be earthed; 
ii) The leads of such vibrators shall be heavily insulated; and 
iii) The current shall be switched off when such vibrators are not in use. 
15.9. INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION 
a. A person responsible for a concreting work shall supervise the erection of the formwork, shores, 
braces and other supports used for such concreting work, make a through inspection of every 
formwork to ensure that such formwork is safe, regularly inspect th e formwork, shores, braces, 
reshores and other supports during the placing of concrete, keep all records of inspections 
referred to above at the workplace relating to such inspection and produce them for inspection 
upon the demand.  
b. Any unsafe condition, which is discovered during the inspections, shall be remedied immediately. 
15.10. BEAMS, FLOORS AND ROOFS 
a. Horizontal and diagonal bracings shall be provided in both longitudinal and transverse direction as 
may be necessary to provide structural stability to formwo rk used in concreting work and shores 
used in such concreting work shall be properly seated on top and bottom and secured in their 
places; 
b. Where shores used in concreting work rest upon the ground, base plates shall be provided for 
keeping such shores firm and in level; 
c. Where the floor to ceiling height of a concreting work exceeds 9 m or where the formwork deck 
used in such concreting work is supported by shores constructed in two or more tiers, or where 
the dead, live and impact loads on the formwork used  in such concreting work exceed 700 
kilogram per m2, the structure of such formwork shall be designed by a professional engineer in 
the relevant field and the specifications and drawings of such formwork kept at such construction 
site and produced on demand.  
102  
  
d. Where a professional engineer designs the structure of the formwork used in concreting work, 
such engineer shall be responsible for the supervision of construction and the stability of such 
structure. 
15.11. STRIPPING 
a. Stripping of formwork used in concreting work shall not commence until the concrete on such 
formwork is fully set, examined and certified to this effect by the responsible person and record 
of such examination and certification is maintained; 
b. Stripped forms in concreting work shall be removed or stock piled promptly after stripping from 
all areas in which building workers are required to work or pass; 
c. Protruding nail, wire ties and other formwork accessories not required for subsequent concreting 
work shall be pulled, cut or otherwise made safe. 
15.12. RE-SHORING 
a. Re-shoring used in concreting work shall be provided to a slab or beam for its safe support after 
its stripping or where such slab or beam is subjected to superimposed loads due to construction 
above such slab or beam; 
b. The provisions applicable to shoring in a concreting work shall also be applicable to reshoring in 
such work or pass. 
 
103  
  
16.0. SAFETY IN CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR & MAINTENANCE 
OF STEEP ROOFS 
 
16.1. WORK ON STEEP ROOFS: 
 All practicable measures shall be provided to protect the building workers against sliding when    
carrying outwork on steep roofs. 
16.2. CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION OF ROOFING BRACKETS 
a. Roofing brackets shall be constructed to fit the pitch of steep roof and such brackets shall be used 
to provide level working platform; 
b. Roofing bracket shall be secured in its place by nailing pointed metal projections attached to the 
underside of such bracket and securely driven into a steep roof on which it is used or secured by 
a rope passed over the ridgepole and tie of such roof. 
16.3. CRAWLING BOARDS 
a. All crawling boards used for work on steep roofs shall be of adequate strength, made of sound 
material and of the type approved for the purpose of their use;  
b. Crawling boards shall be kept in good repairs and inspected by a responsible person before being 
taken into use; 
c. Crawling boards shall be secured to a steep roof on which it is used by ridge hooks or other 
effective means; 
d. A firmly fastened lifeline of adequate strength shall bee strung beside each crawling board 
throughout its length while using such crawling boards. 
 
104  
  
17.0. SAFETY IN CATCHES PLATFORMS, HOARDINGS & CHUTES 
 
17.1. CATCH PLATFORM  
a. Catch platform shall not be used for storage of material or as a working platform; 
b. Catch platform shall at least be of 2 m wide and inclined so that the position of outer edge of such 
platform is 1500 mm higher than the inner edge; 
c. The open end of catch platform shall be properly fenced to the height not less than 1 m.  
17.2. HOARDINGS:  
Hoardings shall be constructed when the Registering Authority / Assistant Labour Commissioner 
considers it necessary for protection of building workers and directs such employer to construct 
such hoardings. 
17.3. CHUTES, ITS CONSTRUCTION AND USE 
a. Wooden or metal chutes which are at an angle of more than 450 to the horizontal and used for the 
removal of materials shall be closed on all sides except at their openings used for receiving or 
discharging of materials or articles; 
b. All openings of chutes except their top openings shall be closed when not in use; 
c. Every chute – 
i. Shall be constructed of sound material, adequate strength and suitable for the purpose it is 
intended for use; 
ii. Exceeding 12 m in height shall be constructed in accordance with the design and drawings of 
professional engineer for such; 
iii. A suitable warning notice shall be displayed at conspicuous locations, written in Hindi   and in 
a local language, at the discharge end of every chute; 
iv. Shall be cleared when debris has accumulated to a height, which can pose danger to building 
worker, but such clearance shall be done in no case less frequently than once a day. 
105  
  
18.0. SAFETY IN WORK ON OR ADJACENT TO WATER 
 
18.1. TRANSPORT OF WORKERS BY WATER 
a. When any building worker has to proceed to or from any workplace by water for purposes of 
carrying on a building or other construction work, proper measures shall be taken to provide for 
his safe transportation and vessels used for such purpose shall be in charge of a responsible 
person, properly equipped for safe navigation and maintained in good condition; 
b. Maximum number of persons which can be safe ly carried in a vessel shall be marked plainly and 
conspicuously on such vessel and such number shall not be exceeded during use of such vessel for 
carrying persons;  
c. Adequate protecting shall be provided to the building workers in such vessel from incleme nt 
weather; 
d. Such vessel shall be manned by adequate and experienced crew; 
e. In case the bulwarks of such vessel are lower than 60 cm from the level of the deck of such vessel, 
the open edge of such bulwarks shall be fitted with suitable fencing to a height o f at least 1 m 
above such deck and the post and stanchions and similar parts used in such fencing shall not be 
spaced more than 2 m; 
f. The number of life buoys on deck of such vessel shall at least be equal to the number of crew 
members of such vessel and shall not be less than two; 
g. All life buoys on deck of such vessel shall be kept in good state of maintenance and so placed that 
if such vessel sinks then they will remain afloat and one of such buoys shall be within the 
immediate reach of the Steersman of such vessel and another is situated after part of such vessel; 
and 
h. The position of the steersman of the vessel shall be such that he has a reasonably free view of all 
sides. 
18.2. PREVENTION FROM DROWNING  
a. Where, on or adjacent to the workplace of any contraction site, there is water into which a building 
worker employed for work on such site, in the course of his employment, may fall and has the risk 
of drowning, suitable rescue equipment shall be provided and kept in an efficient state of ready 
use and measures s hall be taken to arrange for the prompt rescue of such building worker from 
the danger of drowning and where there is a special risk of such fall from the edge of adjacent 
land or from a structure adjacent to or above the water, or from floating stage on s uch water, 
secure fencing shall be provided near the edge of such land, structure or floating stage, as the case 
may be, to prevent such fall, and such fencing may be removed or allowed to remain unerected 
for the time and to the extent necessary for the a ccess of building workers to such work or the 
movement of material for such work; 
b. For handling rescue equipment, at least two persons knowing diving should be available at such 
sites. 
 
106  
  
 
19.0 SAFETY IN COFFERDAMS & CAISSONS 
19.1  EVERY COFFERDAM AND CAISSON SHALL BE  
19.1.1  Of good construction, sound material and of adequate strength, provided with adequate means 
for workers to reach safely at the top of such  cofferdam or caisson in the event of an in rush of 
water and safe means of access to every place where workers shall be employed; 
19.1.2 Work relating to construction, positioning, modification, dismantling of cofferdams or caissons 
shall be carried out under the supervision of a responsible person and inspected by the responsible 
person at the specified intervals; 
19.1.3 A worker shall be allowed to work in a cofferdam or caisson after such cofferdam or caisson has 
been inspected and found safe by responsible person within such preceding period as approved 
and a record of such inspection maintained.  
 
19.2  WORK IN COMPRESSED AIR IN A COFFERDAM OR CAISSON SHALL BE 
19.2.1 Carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down; 
19.2.2 Carried out by such building workers who have completed eighteen years of age and are medically 
examined and found fit for the work; 
19.2.3 Carried out under the supervision of a responsible person; 
19.2.4 If the work in cofferdam or caisson is carried out in shifts, a record of the time spent by each 
worker in each such shift for carrying out the wok shall be maintained in a register with particulars 
or time taken for the compression of such building worker, if any; 
19.2.5 At every work site or project in a cofferdam or caisson, where workers are employed to work in 
compressed air environment, a construction medical officer assisted by a nurse or trained first-aid 
attendant, shall be available at all times and there shall be one standby reserve compressor to 
meet the emergency. 
 
19.3  PRESSURE PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
19.3.1 Pressure plant and equipment for which it is used shall be – 
19.3.2 Properly maintained in good repairs and working condition and fitted with a suitable safety valve 
or other effective device to provide maximum safe discharge pressure from being exceeded at any 
time; a suitable pressure gauge with a dial range not less than 1.5 time and not exceeding twice 
the maximum working pressure, easily visi ble and designed to show at all times, the internal 
pressure in kilogram per square centimeter and marked with the maximum safe working pressure, 
a suitable stop valve or valves by which the pressure plant or the system of the pressure plant may 
be isolated from the source supply of pressure or otherwise; 
19.3.3 Every pressure plant or equipment shall be thoroughly examined by the competent person, 
externally, once in every period of six months; internally, once in every period of twelve months; 
and by hydraulic test, once in a period of four years. 
 
 
 
107  
  
20. SAFETY IN DEMOLITION WORK 
20.1 PREPARATION 
20.1.1 All glass or similar material or article in exterior openings shall be removed before 
commencing any demolition work and all water, steam, electric, gas and other similar supply 
lines put off and suitably capped and the concerned department of the appropriate authority 
informed and permission obtained wherever required before commencing; 
20.1.2 Wherever it is necessary to maintain water, gas or electric line or power during such 
demolition, such line shall be so located or protected with substantial coverings so as to 
protect it from damage and to afford safety to the building workers and the general public. 
 
20.2  PROTECTION OF ADJACENT STRUCTURES 
20.2.1   Examination of walls etc. of adjacent structures – 
i) During demolition process, the contractor shall examine the walls of all structures adjacent to 
the structure to be demolished to determine the thickness, method of support to such adjacent 
structures and; 
ii) In case, such employer has reason to believe that any of such adjacent structure is unsafe or 
may become unsafe during such demolition process, he shall not perform demolition activity 
unless stability to such unsafe adjacent structu4e from collapsing has been taken. All roads and 
open spaces adjacent to the site of demolition work shall be closed or suitably protected by 
bracketing.  
 
20.3  DEMOLITION OF WALLS, PARTITIONS, ETC. 
20.3.1 Any demolition of walls or partitions shall be proceeded in a systematic manner as per the 
standard safe operating practices approved and all work above each tier of any floor beams shall 
be completed before the safety of the supports of such beam is impaired; 
20.3.2 Masonry shall be neither loosened nor permitted to fall in such masses or volume or weight as to 
endanger the structural stability of any floor or structural supports; 
20.3.3 No wall chimney or other structure or part of a structure shall be left unguarded in such a condition 
that it may fall, collapse or weaken due to wind pressure or vibration; 
20.3.4 In the case of demolition of exterior walls by hand, safe footing shall be provided for the workers 
employed in, such walls or partitions, which are to be demolished by hand shall be not left standing 
more than one storey high above the uppermost floor on which persons are working. 
 
20.4 METHOD OF OPERATION: The contractor shall ensure that debris, bricks and other materials or 
articles are removed by means of chutes, buckets or hoists and through openings in the floors. 
20.5 ACCESS TO FLOOR 
20.5.1 Safe access to an d egress from every building shall be provided at all times in the course of 
demolition by means of entrances hallways, stairways or ladder runs which shall be so protected 
as to safeguard the workers using such means from falling material or articles; 
108  
  
20.5.2 Demolition of structural steel etc. shall be demolished column by column and tier by tier and every 
structural member, which is being demolished, shall not be under any stress, and such structural 
member shall be suitably lashed to prevent it from any uncontrolled swinging, dropping or falling 
or falling; 
20.5.3 Large structural members shall not be thrown or dropped from the building, but carefully lowered 
by adopting suitable safe method; 
20.5.4 Where a lifting appliance like a derrick is used for demolition, the floor  on which such lifting 
appliance rests shall be completely planked over or supported and such floor shall be of adequate 
strength to sustain bearing load for such lifting appliance and its operation.  
 
20.6  STORAGE OF MATERIAL OR ARTICLE 
20.6.1 No materials or articles shall be not stored or kept on platform, floor or stairways of a building 
being demolished, provided that this clause shall not apply to the floor of a building when such 
floor is of such strength as to support safely the load to be superimposed by storing such material 
or articles; 
20.6.2 No access to any stairway or passageway shall be affected or blocked by storing any material or 
article; 
20.6.3 Suitable barricades shall be provided so as to prevent materials or articles from sliding or 
rebounding into any space used by the workers. 
20.7     FLOOR OPENINGS: 
             Every opening used for the removal of debris from every floor which is not closed to access, 
except the top or working floor, shall be provided with an enclosure from such floor to its 
ceiling, or such opening is so barricaded that no building worker shall access to within a 
horizontal distance of 6.0 m from such opening through which debris is being dropped. 
20.8 INSPECTION:  
             A person responsible for demolition work shall make continuo us inspections during demolition 
process so as to detect any hazard resulting from weakened or deteriorated floors or walls or 
loosened materials or articles, and that no building worker shall be permitted to work where such 
hazard exist unless remedial me asured like shoring or bracing shall be taken to prevent such 
hazards. 
20.9  WARNING SIGNS, BARRICADES, ETC. 
20.9.1 Barricades and warning sign shall be erected along every side throughout the length and breadth 
of a building or other construction work to be demolished to prevent unauthorized persons from 
entering into the during demolition operations; 
20.9.2 During the demolition of an exterior masonry wall or a roof from a point more than 12 m above 
the adjoining ground level of such wall or roof, if persons below such wall or roof are exposed to 
falling objects, suitable and safe catch platform shall be provided and maintained at a level not 
more than 6 m below the working level except where an exterior built-up scaffold is provided for 
safe and adequate protection of such persons; 
20.9.3 Suitable and standard warning signs shall be displayed or erected at conspicuous places or position 
at the workplace; 
 
20.10 MECHANICAL METHOD OF DEMOLITION 
109  
  
20.10.1 The following requirements shall be fulfilled in case the mechanical method of demolition like use 
of swinging weight, clamshell bucket, power shovel, bulldozer or other similar mechanical 
methods are used for the purpose of demolition namely – 
i) The building or structure or structure or remaining portion thereof shall be not more than 12 
m in height; 
ii) Where a swinging weight is used for demolition, a zone of such demolition having a radius of 
at least 1.5 times the height of the structure of portion thereof being demolished shall be 
maintained around the points of impact of such swinging weight; 
iii) Where a clamshell bucket is being used for demolition, a zone of demolition shall be 
maintained within eight metres of the liner of travel of such bucket; 
iv) Where other mechanical methods are being used to affect total or partial collapse of a building 
or other construction work, there shall be maintained, in the area into which the affected 
portion of such building or other construction work may fall, a zone of demolition at least 1.5 
times the height of such affected portion thereof; and 
v) No person  other than building workers or other persons essential to the operation of 
demolition work shall be permitted to enter a zone of demolition, which shall be provided with 
substantial barricades. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110  
  
21. FIRE EXTINGUISHERS & OTHER APPLIANCES OF FIRE FIGHTING 
21.1 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS & OTHER MEANS OF PREVENTION AND PROTECTION 
21.1.1 Every contractor shall have a fire protection and prevention plan developed and implemented 
keeping in view the following: 
i) The specific work practices requiring fire control measures; 
ii) Response measures to be taken in case of fire; 
iii) Equipment required; 
iv) Personnel requirements and responsibilities; 
v) Schedules of daily and weekly inspection; 
vi) Open flames and fires are prohibited in all underground construction; 
vii) Readily visible signs to be posted in the fire prone/inflammable/explosive areas prohibiting 
smoking use of open flames and other hot work. 
viii) A system of Permit-to-Work.  
 
27.1.2 For the protection of the workers from the outbreak of fire, the contractor shall  Provide, 
maintain and regularly inspect the Fire extinguishing equipment, which shall be sufficiently 
provided to extinguish any probable fire; 
 
27.1.3 Ensure availability of an adequate supply of water at ample pressure; 
27.1.4 Make available  
i. Adequate number of trained persons required to operate the fire 
extinguishing equipment; 
Suitability of portable fire extinguishers 
Class of fire Type of extinguisher 
Water DCP CO2 
A Yes Yes Yes 
B No Yes Yes 
C No Yes Yes 
D No Yes Yes 
Electrical No Yes Yes 
111  
  
ii. Properly maintain Fire extinguishing equipment and inspect them at 
regular intervals of not less than once in a year by the responsible person 
and a record of such inspections maintained; 
27.1.5 Portable fire extinguishers provided in the operator’s cabin of earthmoving machinery, 
material handling systems, construction equipment etc. shall be regularly inspected, 
maintained and replenished/refilled; 
27.1.6 The operators and the helpers of such equipment shall be trained in the methods operating 
the equipment and fighting the fire effectively; 
27.1.7 All combustion engine power equipment shall be so located that the exhausts are well away 
from combustible material; 
27.1.8 No smoking shall be allowed at or in the vicinity of operations, which constitute fire hazards 
and shall be conspicuously posted with No smoking or open flame signs; 
27.1.9 In the flammable environment as described in IS: 9570, the electrical fittings and equipment 
shall be of flame proof type conforming to IS: 2206 & IS; 2148; 
27.1.10 Arrangements shall be made to contain sparks generated during welding, cutting or other 
operations and spark shall not be allowed to fall down on combustible material kept below; 
All means of exit shall be kept free of obstruction at all times;  
27.1.11 Appropriate type of fire extinguishers according to IS: 5698 shall be kept in  fully charged   
condition at the places which have potential risk of fire; 
27.1.12 The contractor shall educate his or his sub -contractors’ men working in the vicinity of fire 
risk, on how to operate these equipment and know in particular circumstances which type of 
extinguishers is to be used; 
27.1.13 The contractor shall take full responsibility for the upkeep and replenishment/refilling of the 
fixed and portable fire extinguishers. 
112  
  
APPENDIX 
Annexure I  
IMPORTANT INDIAN STANDARDS RELATED TO SAFETY 
Personal Protection 
IS: 1179-1967 Equipment for eye and face protection during welding 
IS: 4770-1991 Rubber gloves for electrical purposes 
IS: 8519-1977 Guide for selection of industrial safety equipment for body protection 
IS: 8520-1977 Guide for selection of industrial safety equipment for eye, face & ear protection 
IS: 8807-1978 Guide for selection of safety equipment for protection of arms and hands 
IS: 1224-1985 Safety shoes 
IS: 2925-1984 Safety helmets 
IS: 8940-1978 Code of practice for maintenance and care of industrial  safety equipment eye and 
face protection 
IS: 8990-1978 Code of practice for maintenance and care of industrial safety clothing 
IS: 10667-1983 Guide for selection of industrial safety for protection of foot and leg 
IS: 816-1969 Code of practice for safety and health requirements in electric and gas welding and 
cutting operations 
IS: 818-1968 Code of practice for safety and health requirements in electric and gas welding and 
cutting operations 
IS: 7194-1994 Assessment of noise exposure during work for hearing conservation purposes 
Civil Engineering Construction 
IS: 2750- 1967(Part II) Steel scaffolds 
IS: 875-1987     Structural safety of building: loading standards  
IS: 4014-1967   Code of practice for steel tubular scaffolding 
IS: 3696             Safety code of scaffolds and ladders 
IS: 4138-1977    Safety code for working in compressed air 
IS: 4912-1978    Safety requirements for floor and wall openings, railings and toe boards 
IS: 7293-1974    Safety code for working with construction machinery 
IS: 9944-1992 Recommendations on safe working load for natural and man-made rope slings 
BS: 1129            Portable timber ladders, steps, Trestles & lightweight staging 
BS: 1139            Metal scaffolds 
BS: 5973            Code of practice for access & working scaffolds 
BS: 5974            Code of practice for temporary installed scaffolds and access equipment 
BS: 5975            Code of practice for falsework  
Fire Protection  
IS: 2190-1992 Code of practice for selection, installation and maintenance of portable first-aid fire 
extinguishers 
IS: 5896     Code of practice for selection, operation and maintenance of fire-fighting appliances 
113  
  
IS: 8433-1984    Code of practice for dissolved acetylene cylinders 
Electrical 
IS: 3043-1987     Code of practice for earthing  
IS: 5424-1969     Rubber mats for electrical purposes 
IS: 3646 (Part II) Artificial lightings 
IS: 2148 & IS: 2206 Flame proof electrical fittings 
Machinery 
IS: 1860-1980  Code of practice for installation, operation and maintenance of electric passenger 
and goods lifts 
IS: 1991-1987  Safety requirements for the use, care and protection of abrasive grinding   wheels 
IS: 5903-1970     Safety devices for gas cylinders 
IS: 8216-1976     Guide for inspection of lift wire ropes  
IS: 8964-978        Recommendations for safety conditions for woodworking machines 
IS: 9474-1980      Principles of mechanical guarding of machinery 
IS: 11461-1985    Code of practice for compressors safety 
IS: 13367-1992    Code of practice for safe use of cranes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
114 
 Annexure - II 
BASIC STRUCTURE OF SAFETY PLAN 
01- Safety Policy
02- When was the Safety Policy last reviewed
03- Details of implementation procedure / methods to implement Safety Policy / Safety Rules
04- Qualification & Experience of Safety Officers
05- Review of Accidents analysis - Methods to ensure safety & health and steps identified for
prevention of accidents
06- Unit/site Executive responsible for ensuring safety at various levels in the workplace
07- List of Employees trained in safety at the commencement of execut ion of the job; details of
training – its module and contents
08- Safety Training Targets, Schedules, Methods to be adopted for providing safety training to all
employees
09- Details of checklists for different jobs/ work & responsible persons to ensure Compliance
10- Regular Safety Inspection Methods and Periodicity and the list of members authorized
11- Risk Assessment, Safety Audit by professional agencies, their Periodicity
12- Implementation of recommendations of Audit / Inspections. - Procedures for implementation
& follow-up
13- Provision for treatment of Injured persons at work site
14- Review of overall safety by top Management and Periodicity
15- System for implementation of statutory provisions.
16- Issue of PPE to employees, Periodicity / stock on hand, etc.
Signature 
Head of Organization 
With Date & Stamp 
115 
Annexure - III 
CONFINED SPACE WORK PERMIT
Date of Work : Initiator: Permit No.: 
Description of work : 
Name of person supervising: Dept./Function: 
Names of workmen involved in the job : 
1 2 
3 4 
Exact Location of Work: 
JSA Referance No. 
Job Instruction & Confirmation Sheet Ref. 
No 
Valid From : Time ………….   Date: ………………….   To   Time: ………….  Date: ………………….  
Other relevant information (if any) 
Initiated by Engineer / Supervisor of 
Agency 
Checked by Agency Safety Representative 
Name Name 
Signature Signature 
Date Date 
Check list for Authorization of Work Permit 
Minimum and Mandatory Precautions  Y/ N / NA 
1 Permit form filled in completely? 
2 Have wind, atmospheric, and work area conditions (e.g. cold, hot, snow, 
poor lighting & Ventilation etc.) been considered throughout the job so 
that work can be done safely? 
3 All necessary Personnel Protective Equipment like Breathing Set, Waist 
Rope, Light Mounted Helmet etc. is put on by all the workmen? 
4 A lifeline, a rope tied on the safety belt of the person entering the confined 
space is provided? 
5 All practicable measures are taken to ensure that the atmosphere inside is 
not deficient in oxygen and does not contain flammable vapors and no 
hazardous gases like H2S. (Open at least 2 manholes & keep for 2 
hours)? 
6 One fully trained person is stationed at ground level/outside to assist the 
inside workers and emergency contact No's available? 
7 All the workers trained for emergency? 
116  
  
8 Safe means of access and egress provided?    
9 Is the suitable fire extinguisher available at work location?   
10 Are they Using only 24V lamps & working tools inside the confined space?   
Following additional precautions need  to be taken before the start of the work 
 
 
Permit Issued By: 
  Approved by Principal Agency work in 
charge 
Endorsed by Principal Agency HSE 
Dept 
Name     
Signature      
Date      
Permit Close Out by: Name & Signature (Principal Agency) 
Date :  Time :  
Note: All extra information on preparation and precautions to be provided on the reverse side of 
this PTW. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
117  
  
 
HOT WORK PERMIT 
 
Date of Work : Initiator: Permit No.: 
Description of work : 
Name of person supervising: Dept./Function: 
Names of workmen involved in the job : 
1 2 
3 4 
Exact Location of Work: 
JSA Referance No.   
Job Instruction & Confirmation Sheet Ref. 
No 
  
Valid From : Time ………….   Date: ………………….   To   Time: ………….  Date: ………………….  
Other relevant information (if any) 
Initiated by Engineer / Supervisor of 
Agency 
Checked by Agency Safety Representative 
Name    Name    
Signature    Signature    
Date    Date    
Exact location of work 
Relevant information 
Check list for Authorization of Work Permit 
Minimum and Mandatory Precautions  Y/ N / NA 
1 Permit form filled in completely?   
2 Form filled in correctly and in full.   
3 Has the work area been inspected for any abnormalities - specify on wind, 
atmosphere, surroundings, etc. 
  
4 Are the necessary PPE provided and do the workmen know their use?   
5 Is the fitter, experienced and knowledgeable enough to carry out the job?   
6 Area has to be cleared of any flammables and combustible material.   
7 Electrical equipment to be protected and grounded.   
8 Are fire-fighting equipment - extinguishers, water, sand buckets etc, located 
nearby for ready in case of any mishap? 
  
9 Gas cylinders in upright state/ trolleys/ flash-back arrestors/ hose condition/ 
NRVs, etc. 
  
10 Is the area easily accessible?   
118  
  
Additional precautions  to be taken: 
 
This permit is valid only for one week. A fresh hot work permit has to be taken for continued works for 
the next week. 
 
 
 
Permit Issued By:  
  Approved by Principal Agency work in 
charge 
Endorsed by Principal Agency HSE 
Dept 
Name     
Signature      
Date      
Permit Close Out by: Name & Signature (Principal Agency) 
Date :  Time :  
Note: All extra information on preparation and precautions to be provided on the reverse side of 
this PTW. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
119  
  
 
 
PERMIT FOR LIFTING OF MATERIAL 
 
Date of Work : Initiator:    Permit 
No.: 
Description of work:   
 
     
Name of person supervising:   Dept./Function:    
Names of workmen involved in the job : 
          
          
          
Exact Location of Work:        
JSA Reference No.         
Job Instruction & Confirmation Sheet Ref. No      
Valid From : Time ………….   Date: ………………….   To   Time: ………….  Date: ………………….   
Other relevant 
information: (If any) 
       
          
          
Initiated by Engineer / Supervisor of agency  Checked by Agency Safety 
Representative 
 
Name      Name      
Signature     Signature      
Date      Date      
Check list for Authorization of Work Permit 
1 Details of type of crane(s) to be used?     
2 Name of Lift Co-ordinator, Rigger/Crane  Operator?     
3 Adequate and suitable lifting gears available and in good condition   
4 Have soil, wind, atmospheric, and work area conditions (e.g. cold, hot , 
snow, poor lighting & Ventilation etc.) been considered throughout the job 
so that work can be done safely? 
  
5 Lifting Equipments, Lifting gears and Slings are tested and certified?   
6 Are all operators trained, competent and healthy (Having Licenses / 
Experience Certificate)? 
  
7 Are all the examinations and tests carried out on the equipment (Crane) 
and certified by competent persons? 
  
8 Is the safe working load (SWL) marked on all lifting tools & tackles?   
9 Lifting area cordoned off?       
10 Tag lines provided to control the swing of load?     
11 Load tied properly and secured against toppling and falling?    
12 Signalman/Rigger is provided and competent?    
13 Proper communication available between operator 
and rigger? 
    
14 Is the vehicle for transportation adequate for the load?    
120  
  
Following additional precautions need  to be taken before the start of the work:  
Permit Issue b By: 
Approved by Principal  agency work incharge Endorsed by main agency HSE Dept  
Name      Name      
Signature     Signature      
Date      Date      
Permit Close Out by: Name & Signature (Main agency) 
Date :      Time :      
Note: All extra information on preparation and precautions to be provided on the reverse side of this 
PTW. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
121 
WORKING AT HEIGHT  PERMIT 
Date of Work : Initiator: Permit No.: 
Description of work : 
Name of person supervising: Dept./Function: 
Names of workmen involved in the job : 
1 2 
3 4 
Exact Location of Work: 
JSA Referance No. 
Job Instruction & Confirmation Sheet Ref. 
No 
Valid From : Time ………….   Date: ………………….   To   Time: ………….  Date: ………………….  
Other relevant information 
Initiated by Engineer / Supervisor Checked by Agency Safety Representative 
Name Name 
Signature Signature 
Date Date 
Check list for Authorization of Work Permit 
Minimum and Mandatory Precautions  Y/ N / NA 
1 Permit form filled in completely? 
2 Work area below is temporarily cordoned/barricaded 
3 The scaffold erected has pipes and clamps in good condition. 
4 Diagonal / lateral bracings pipes are provided to ensure stability 
5 Access ladder is provided to reach the work location 
6 Planks / sheet used in temporary platform are in good condition 
7 Planks / sheets are tied properly using binding wire 
8 Temporary platform is having temporary side railing 
9 Workers are wearing Helmet, Shoes & Safety belt in good condition. 
10 For Anchoring of safety belt at height rigid support / life rope line is provided 
11 Experienced workers are engaged for work 
12 Portable elect equip/fibre body checked for its healthiness including earthing 
13 The sling / pulley blocks / ropes are tested for fitness 
122 
14 Workers are briefed on Safety Precautions to be taken 
Power hand tools used at eight are connected through 30mA ELCB. 
Following additional precautions need  to be taken before the start of the work 
Permit Issued By: 
Approved by Principal Agency work in 
charge 
Endorsed by Principal Agency HSE 
Dept 
Name 
Signature 
Date 
Permit Close Out by: Name & Signature (Principal Agency) 
Date : Time : 
Note: All extra information on preparation and precautions to be provided on the reverse side of 
this PTW. 
123  
  
 
Annexure - IV 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
1. Building or other construction work:  means the construction, alteration, repairs, maintenance 
or demolition, of or, in relation to, buildings, streets, roads, railways, tramways, airfields, 
generation, transmission and distribution of power, water works, oil and gas installations, electric 
lines, tunnels, bridges, viaducts, pipelines, towers, cooling towers and such other work as may be 
specified.  
 
2. Building worker: means a person who is employed by a contractor to do any skilled, semi-skilled 
or manual, supervisory, technical or clerical work for hire or reward, whether the terms of 
employment be expressed or implied, in connection with any building or other construction work;  
 
3. Establishment: means an establishment who or which employs building workers in any building 
or other construction work, and includes an establishment belonging to a contractor; 
 
     4.  Contractor: means a person who undertakes to produce a given result for any establishment, other        
than a mere supply of goods or articles of manufacture by the employment of building workers or 
who supplies building workers for any work of the establishment, and includes a sub-contractor or 
any other agency engaged on his behalf;  
 
5. Employer: in relation to an establishment, means the owner thereof that is the contractor himself.  
 
6. Competent Person: means a person so approved by the Central Government who belongs to a 
testing establishment in India possessing adequate qualification, experien ce and skill for the 
purpose of testing, examination or annealing and certification of lifting appliances, lifting gears, 
wire ropes or pressure plant or equipment; 
 
7. Responsible Person: means a person appointed by the employer to be responsible for the 
performance of specific duty or duties and who has sufficient knowledge and experience and the 
requisite authority for the proper performance of such duties;  
 
8. Danger: means danger of accident or of injury or danger to health;  
 
9. Hazard: means danger or potential danger;  
 
10. Hazardous substance:  means any substance, which due to its explosiveness, inflammability, 
radioactivity, toxic or corrosive properties and similar hazardous characteristics may Cause injury; 
or Affect adversely the human system; or Cause loss of life or damage to property or environment; 
 
11. Hazardous Process: comprises roof work, steel erection, and work under and over water, demolition 
and work in confined space;  
124 
12. National Standard: means standards as approved by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and in the
absence of such standards, the standards approved by the Central Government for a specific
purpose;
13. Lifting Appliance: means a crane, hoist, derrick, winch, jack, pulley block or other equipment used
for lifting materials, objects or building workers;
14. Lifting gear: means ropes, chains, hooks, slings and other accessories of a lifting appliance;
15. Safe Operating Practice: Means the practice followed in building and construction activities for the
safety of workers and for safe operation of machinery and equipment used in such activities. Such
practices shall conform to all or any of the following:
Relevant Standards approved by BIS;
National Building Codes;
Manufacturer’s instruction on safe use of equipment and machinery;
Code of practice on safety in construction industry published by International Labour Organization .
16. Safe working load: in relation to an article of lifting gear or lifting appliance, means the load which
is the maximum load that may be imposed on such article or appliance with safety in the normal
conditions as assessed and certified by a competent person;
17. Workplace: means all places where building workers are required to be present or to go for work
and which are under the control of an employer;
18. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE):  are the protective devices made available for individual or
collective use of the workers likely to be affected by the hazards of the workplace or process;
19. Construction & Erection Manual (E&C) Rules: all references to E&C Manual shall mean the
Construction & Erection Rules that are detailed hereunder;
20. Engineer in-charge: All references to the Engineer in -charge shall mean the person in -charge of a
building and construction of the NTPC.
21. Interpretation of words not defined:  words and expressions not defined or used in this Manual
shall have the same meaning as generally assigned in common engineering practices
ANNEXURE-E














506076(17)/2022/HYDEL-II SECTION
Annexure-F
Page 1 of 2
506076(17)/2022/HYDEL-II SECTION
467Annexure-F
Page 2 of 2
FORM NO. 1 
PAGE 1 OF 1 
BG forwarding letter from Bank to Unified Treasury in Bank’s letterhead. 
To : 
Unified Treasury (BG Group)  
Administrative Building, NCPS, Dadri 
NTPC Limited,  
PO. Vidyut Nagar  
Distt: Gautam Budh Nagar,  
Uttar Pradesh- 201008. 
Sub: Submission of Bank Guarantee No. 
Bank Guarantee No. 
Date of Issue dd.mm.yyyy
Guarantee Amount Currency Amount 
Date of Expiry of BG dd.mm.yyyy
Last date of lodgement of 
claim  
dd.mm.yyyy
Name, Address and IFSC 
code of BG issuing Bank  
Name: 
Address: 
IFSC code: 
Contract/Letter of Award/PO No. 
Name & Address of the 
Applicant / Contractor  
Name: 
Address: 
We confirm that SFMS has been sent to your beneficiary bank as below: 
ICICI Bank Limited, Connaught Place Branch,  
9A, Phelps Building, Inner Circle, New Delhi - 110001 
IFSC Code: ICIC0000007  
We also confirm the genuineness of the signatures appearing on the said 
guarantee/extension and further also confirm that the same has been signed by the 
competent authority of the bank. 
Date :  Signature...................................................... 
Place  :  Printed Name ............................................... 
(Designation) ................................................ 
(Common Seal) ............................................ 
Form-2
TO WHOMSOEVER IT MAY CONCERN 
This is to certify that we have i ssued/ extended/ amended Bank Guarantee (BG) 
Number………………………….. amounting to …………………………….. (in number 
and words in Contract Currency) in favour of NTPC Limited on be half of M/S 
…………………… ……….. (Contractor name) vide their request reference………….. 
dated………………..  (DD/MM/YYYY) for the period (from)............... (to)............. 
We confirm that the bank commi ssion (excluding Stamp paper, Out of Pocket 
Expenses (OPE) and GST on OPE) amounting to ……………………… (amount and 
currency) for issuance/ extension/ amendment of the aforesaid B G have been 
recovered from M/s ……………………….. (Contractor name).  
We further confirm that the commission charged on issuance/ extension/ 
amendment of the aforesaid BG is as per the prescribed rates of the Bank. Further 
the commission charged by the Bank as per card rates / sanctioned rates is 
customer/ borrower specific and is uniform for all BGs issued at the request of 
said customer/ borrower irrespective of beneficiary. 
Chief Manager/Branch Manager 
SS No: - 
......(Name of Bank)
.......(Place) 
(With Seal of Bank Official) 
FORM No. 3 
Page 1 of 1 
DECLARATION OF ABSENCE OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST WITH 
CONCILIATION COMMITTEES OF INDEPENDENT EXPERTS (CCIE) 
Dear Sirs, 
1.0 We, M/s ... . .. .............. .......... .. (Name of the PMC/PEAContractor) have been awarded the 
contract for …………………… (Name of the package) vide Notification (s) of Award 
No……… dated……. 
2.0 As per the provisions of the contract, we hereby propose th e following CCIEs, in 
priority order, as per the list enclosed in the Special Conditions of Contract, as 
amended from time to time by Ministry of Power, for finalization of CCIE by CEA: 
1…………………….. 
2…………………….. 
3…………………….. 
3.0 We confirm that we do not have any conflict of interest with the aforesaid experts and 
they have not been engaged for providing any services to us in the last five years. 
4.0 We confirm that in case of any form of conflict of interest  (possible or actual) which 
may inadvertently emerge during the conciliation proceedings by CCIE, the same will 
be duly reported to you. 
5.0 We understand that NTPC may withdraw from the conciliation proceedings, if any 
conflict of interest with us is found out which have been inten tionally concealed, and 
the matter may be referred to Ministry of Power. Further, action may be taken against 
us in respect of Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
Date : (Signature).................................... 
Place  : (Printed Name).............................. 
(Designation)................................ 
(Common Seal)........................... 
FORM NO. 4  
PAGE 1 OF 1 
UNDERTAKING REGARDING ABSENCE OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST WITH 
EMPLOYER/CONTRACTOR 
To : 
[Employer's Name and Address]* 
Dear Sirs, 
1.0 I, …………*………..(Name of the selected CCIE member), understand  t h a t  c o n f l i c t   o f  
interest refers to situations in which financial or other perso nal considerations may 
compromise my recommendations in relating to resolution of disp utes  between NTPC 
Limited and M/s ……*…….(Name of the Contractor). 
2.0 I confirm that I do not have any conflict of interest with NTPC Limited and M/s 
……*…….(Name of the Contractor/PMC/PEA) and I have not been engaged for providing any services 
to them in the last five years. 
3.0 I confirm that in case of any form of conflict of interest (possible or actual) which   may 
inadvertently emerge during my tenure as CCIE member, the same will be duly reported to 
NTPC/CEA/Ministry of Power. 
4.0 I understand that NTPC may withdraw from the conciliation p roceedings, if any conflict of 
interest with me is found out which have been intentionally con cealed, and the matter may 
be referred to Ministry of Power. 
Date : (Signature).................................... 
Place  : (Printed Name).............................. 
(Designation)................................ 
(Common Seal)........................... 
Page 1 of 4 
REF NO: CS- 
 
CONTRACT AGREEMENT 
THIS CONTRACT AGREEMENT is made on the ______day of 
BETWEEN 
(1) NTPC Limited, a Corporation incorporated under the laws of India and having its
principal place of business at NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7 Institutional Area,
Lodi Road, New Delhi-101003 (hereinafter called “the Owner”)
and 
(2) ……….., a Corporation incorporated under the laws of India and having its principal
place of business at ……… , (hereinafter called “the Project Management Consultant, 
PMC / Project Executing Agency, PEA”) 
WHEREAS the Owner desires to engage the PMC / PEA for the work of “(hereinafter 
referred as “Contract”) as per provisions of Bidding Document no……….. and its 
amendments/Clarifications/Errata there of as referred to in para 1.0 of Letter of Award (LOA) 
and the PMC/ PEA have agreed to such engagement upon and subject to the terms and 
conditions hereinafter appearing. 
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows: 
FORM NO. 5 : FORM OF CONTRACT AGREEMNET
Page 2 of 4 
Article 1,  
Contract 
Documents 
1.1 Contract Documents (Reference GCC Clause 2) 
The following documents shall constitute the Contract between 
the Owner and the PMC/ PEA, and each shall be read and 
construed as an integral part of the Contract. 
(a) This Contract Agreement
(b)  Letter of Award bearing reference no: ………. 
-Enclosed at VOLUME – I
(c) Amendments/ Clarifications/Errata, if any, to the bidding
documents issued by NTPC
-Enclosed at VOLUME- I
(d) Terms and Conditions of Contract and other bidding
documents
-Enclosed at VOLUME- I
(e) Technical Specifications and drawings to be read in
conjunction with Amendments/ Clarifications/ Errata
 -Enclosed at VOLUME- I
(f) Techno-commercial Bid Proposal submitted by Ref
No………… and opened on ……….. Price Bid proposal 
submitted by and opened on ……………… 
-Enclosed at VOLUME – I
1.2 Order of Precedence 
In the event of any ambiguity or conflict between the Contract 
Documents listed above, the order of precedence shall be the 
order in which the Contract Documents are listed in Article 1.1 
(Contract Documents) above. 
1.3 Definitions (Reference Terms & Conditions Clause 1.1 to 1.24) 
Capitalized words and phrases used herein shall have the same 
meanings as are ascribed to them in the Terms and Conditions 
of Contract. 
Page 3 of 4 
Article 2  
Contract Price 
and Terms of 
Payment 
2.1 
2.2 
Contract Price (Reference Clause ……. of LOA) 
The Owner hereby agrees to pay to PMC/ PEA the following in 
consideration of the performance by PMC/ PEA of its obligations 
under the Contract: 
Sl. No. Particulars Amount (INR) 
1. Consultancy Fee for DPR
& DETAILED ENGG.
(Excl. GST)
2. Project management fee 
(Excl. GST) 
Terms of Payment 
The terms and procedures of payment according to which the 
Owner will reimburse PMC/ PEA are specified in Clause 8.0 and 
9.0 of Terms and conditions of the contract. 
Article 3. 
Effective Date for 
Determining Time 
for Completion 
3.1 Effective Date (Reference LOA Clause …………) 
The Time of Completion of the Facilities shall be determined 
from the date of Letter of Award i.e. ……………… 
Article 4 It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the 
PMC/PEA and the Owner that the Owner is entering into this 
Agreement solely on its own behalf and not on behalf of any 
other person or entity.  In particular it is expressly understood 
and agreed that the Government of India is not a party to this 
Agreement and has no liabilities, obligations or rights hereunder. 
It is expressly understood and agreed that the Owner is an 
Independent legal entity with power and authority to enter into 
contracts solely on its own behalf under the applicable laws of 
India and the general principles of Contract Law. PMC/PEA 
expressly agrees, acknowledges and understands that the 
Owner is not an Agent, Representative or Delegate of the Govt. 
of India.  It is further understood and agreed that the Govt. of 
India is not and shall not be liable for any acts, omissions, 
commissions, breaches or other wrongs arising out of the 
Contract.  Accordingly, the PMC/PEA expressly waives, 
releases and foregoes any and all actions or claims, including 
cross claims, impleader claims or counter claims against the 
Government of India arising out of this Contract and covenants 
not to sue the Government of India as to any manner, claim, 
Page 4 of 4 
cause of action or thing whatsoever arising of or under this 
Agreement. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Owner and PMC/PEA have caused this Agreement to be duly 
executed by their duly authorized representatives the day and year first above written. 
Signed by for and on behalf of the Owner 
(Signature) 
(Title) 
In the presence of ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Signed by for and on behalf of the PMC/ PEA 
 (Signature) 
(Title) 
In the presence of ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
FORM OF EXTENSION OF BANK GUARANTEE/ INSURANCE SURETY BOND 
Ref. No.: Date: 
@ ______ _ 
Dear Sirs, 
Subject : Extension of Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond No. dated for 
..... [indicate 
value of Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond] ..................... .favouring yourselves 
expiring on---------------------------
on account of M/s .................. (Name of Bidder) ............... .in respect of Contract for 
(Insert Package name) (Insert Project Name) project, 
Contract No. dated -----
(hereinafter called original Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond) 
At the request of Mis. ___________ _ we _____ Bank/Insurer 
branch 
office at __________ and having its Head office at. ________ do 
hereby extend our liability under the above mentioned guarantee No. ___ _ 
__ dated for a further period of year/months from 
__________ to expire on ______ . 
Except as provided above, all other terms and conditions of original Bank 
Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond No. dated_shall remain unaltered and 
binding. 
Please treat this as an integral part of the original guarantee to which it would be deemed 
to have been attached. 
Dated ____ _ 
SEAL OF BANK/INSURANCE COMPANY 
Note: 
(Signature) 
(Name) 
(Designation with Bank/Insurer Stamp) 
(Official e-mail Id) 
Authorised vide 
Power of Attorney No .... . 
Date ....................... . 
1. @ The extension of the Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond should be
forwarded to the UniU ProjecUCorporate Centre, from where the extension has 
FORM NO. 6