 
BANGLADESH-INDIA FRIENDSHIP POWER COMPANY (PVT.) LIMITED  
(A Joint Venture of BPDB, Bangladesh and NTPC Limited, India) 
Unique Heights (Borak), Level-17, 117 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue, Eskaton 
Garden, Dhaka-1000, Bangladesh. 
INVITATION FOR BID 
OPEN TENDER ENQUIRY (International Competitive Bidding) 
                             Date: 21/09/2025 
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Ltd. (BIFPCL) invites bids from eligible bidders 
in Single Stage Two Envelopes (Envelope-1: Technical Proposal and Envelope-2: Financial 
Proposal) for the following package and details: 
Package-01 
IFB No BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                                       
Name of Package Procurement of Raw Materials (EN, CS, Brass, 
Copper & Bronze) for Workshop for 2x660 MW, 
MSTPP, RAMPAL, BAGERHAT 
Tender Fee N/A 
Tender Security BDT 7,60,000 (Taka Seven Lakh and Sixty 
Thousand only) or USD 6,200 (Six Thousand Two 
Hundred only 
Tender document Sale Period: From 21.09.2025 ( Sunday) (10:00 Hrs. (BST) to 
02.11.2025 (Sunday) (17:00 Hrs. (BST)) 
Last Date for submission of pre-bid 
Query 
On 20.10.2025 (Monday) (at 17:00 Hrs. (BST)   
Pre-Bid Meeting  N/A 
Bid (Envelope-1 & Envelope-2) 
Receipt Date & Time                 
Up to 03.11.2025 (Monday) till 11:00 Hrs. (BST) 
Envelope-1 (Technical) Proposal 
Opening Date & Time                  
On 03.11.2025 (Monday) at 12:00 Hrs. (BST) 
 
 
For Qualifying Requirements (QR), Scope of Work, availability of Bidding Documents and other details, please 
refer to detailed “Invitation for Bid” available at www.bifpcl.com or may contact the office of the u ndersigned. 
The bidders may submit proposals for individual packages subject to compliance with QR with other terms & 
conditions.  For all other details, may please visit the website: www.bifpcl.com. 
.  
(Mr. S.M. Zahid Hasan) 
Chief Procurement Officer (CPO), BIFPCL 
           Unique Heights (Borak), Level-17, 117 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue, Eskaton Garden, Dhaka-1000 
Tel. No.:+8802-58314264; 
E-mail: cpo@bifpcl.com; kvmohan@bifpcl.com 
 
 
 
 
 
21.09.2025 
 

IFB NO.- BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                                  Page 1 of 96 
 
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited 
(A Joint Venture of Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), 
Bangladesh and NTPC Ltd., India) 
 
(International Competitive Bidding) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O p e n  T e n d e r i n g M e t h o d  ( O T M )  
I n t e r n a t i o n a l  C o m p e t i t i v e  B i d d i n g 
 
  
T E N D E R  D O C U M E N T  
FOR THE PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND RELATED SERVICES  
 
INVITATION FOR BID (IFB) 
(Section- IA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NAME OF WORK: Procurement of Raw Materials (EN, CS, Brass, Copper & Bronze) 
for Workshop for 2x660 MW, MSTPP, RAMPAL, BAGERHAT 
 
 
IFB NO.- BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                     Date: 21/09/2025 
 
IFB NO.- BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                                  Page 2 of 96 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BID 
(SECTION-IA) 
 
IFB No.: BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                                                                  Date: 21/09/2025 
 
1.0 Bangladesh-India Frien dship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited (“ BIFPCL”), acting as the Employer, invites 
sealed Tenders from eligible bidders for “Procurement of Raw Materials (EN, CS, Brass, Copper & Bronze) 
             for Workshop FOR 2x660 MW,  MSTPP, RAMPAL, BAGERHAT” Project (“2x660 MW Maitree STPP ” or 
“MSTPP”) (the “Project”) at Rampal, following Single Stage Two Envelope bidding procedure (Envelope-
1: Technical Proposal and Envelope -2: Financial Proposal), as per the Scope of Work mentioned in brief 
hereinafter. 
  
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
 The Contractor shall commence supply Raw Materials(EN, CS, Brass, Copper & Bronze  for Workshop 
FOR 2x660 MW, MSTPP, RAMPAL, BAGERHAT against the subject package as per the  ‘Schedule of 
Requirement’, considering the specifications/ conditions stip ulated in the Bidding Documents. 
Installation of all the AC units as per BOQ/ ‘Schedule of Requirement’ shall be completed within the time 
period stipulated in the contract. Bidder is requested to go through the complete specification for the 
detailed scope of work, which is described in this Section of the Bidding Document, towards ensuring 
smooth and trouble-free operation of all activities in supply chain required for ensuring material delivery 
at site.   
 The detailed Scope of Work is provided in the Te chnical Specification (Section -VII) of the Bidding 
Document. Bidder shall consider the Bidding Document in its entirety for complete understanding and 
interpretation of the Scope of Work and Services and shall submit a Proposal that meets the complete 
requirement of the Bidding Document. 
3.0 The Bidding Document is available for purchase from the address mentioned below. The bidding process 
schedule is indicated below:  
 
 
IFB No BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052 
Name of Package Procurement of Raw Materials(EN, CS, Brass, Copper & 
Bronze) for Workshop FOR 2x660 MW, MSTPP, RAMPAL, 
BAGERHATFOR 2x660 MW,MSTPP,RAMPAL,BAGERHAT 
Tender Fee Not Applicable 
Tender Security An amount of BDT 7,60,000 (Taka Seven Lakh and Sixty 
Thousand only) or USD 6,200 (Six Thousand Two Hundred 
only) is to be submitted as Tender Security. 
 
The Tender Security may be submitted in the form of: 
Pay order or 
Demand Draft or 
Bank Transfer 
– Account details of BIFPCL will be provided in Annexure-
Y. 
or 
Bank Guarantee (BG) 
– The BG must be encashable in Bangladesh. 
– The format for the Bank Guarantee to be used for 
Tender Security is provided in Annexure-X 
IFB NO.- BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                                  Page 3 of 96 
 
Tender document Sale Period: From 21.09.2025 (Sunday) (10:00 Hrs. (BST) to 
02.11.2025 (Sunday) (17:00 Hrs. (BST)) 
Last Date for submission of pre-
bid Query 
On 20.10.2025 (Monday) (at 17:00 Hrs. (BST)   
Last Date & Time for submission 
of Bid (Technical + Financial) 
Up to 03.11.2025 (Monday) till 11:00 Hrs. (BST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time 
(Technical Bid only) 
On 03.11.2025 (Monday) at 12:00 Hrs. (BST) 
 
 
 Prospective bidders may ple ase note that this is an indicative bidding process schedule and may be 
amended or modified by BIFPCL subsequently. 
 
4.0  All bids must be accompanied by valid Bid Security strictly in the format as prescribed in ITT Clause#31, 
32 & 33 and corresponding TDS cl auses for an amount of BDT 7,60,000 (BDT Seven Lakh and Sixty 
Thousand only). Tender Security shall be submitted by the Bidder in original as in the form of either 
‘Demand Draft’, ‘Pay Order’ , ‘Online bank transfer to the account of BIFPCL (Account details is given in 
Annexure-Y)’ or an irrevocable and unconditional Bank Guarantee, strictly in the format and guidelines 
as specified under ITT Clause# 31, 32 & 33 of the tender document. Bid security/ Tender must be issued 
in favour of full name of Employer only, i.e. “Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company Pvt. Ltd.’ 
              In case of online transfer transactions details print out should be attached as EMD. 
  
 Any bid security/EMD iss ued in favour of short form of Employer (i.e. BIFPCL) or any official, e.g. 
Managing Director/ Chief Procurement Officer etc. shall be liable for rejection. 
 
 
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY SHALL BE REJECTED BY BIFPCL BEING  
TREATED AS NON-RESPONSIVE. 
 
5.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidder 
5.1 Technical Criteria: Tenderers shall have the following minimum level of experience to qualify for the 
performance of the supplies under the contract: 
5.1.1 Tenderers shall have the following minimum level of experience to qualify for the performance   
of the Supplies under the Contract: 
The bidder must be a Manufacturer of Ferrous or, Non -Ferrous bars/rods  with forging 
facility or The bidder must be an authorized representative who has experience in 
manufacturing/supplying Ferrous or, Non -Ferrous bars/rods  and The bidder must have 
individually executed manufacturing / supplying of Ferrous or, Non-Ferrous bars/rods to any 
Govt. /Semi Govt. / Private Firm / Industry as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, 
of value not less than  
a. BDT 3.00 Cr in a single contract (equivalent to USD 245,901  for vendors outside of 
Bangladesh) or  
b. BDT 2.25 Cr each in at least two contracts (equivalent to USD 184,426for vendors outside 
of Bangladesh) or  
c. BDT 1.50 Cr each in at least three contracts  
in the last five (05) financial years . (equivalent to USD 1,2 3,000 for vendors outside of 
Bangladesh) 
Years need to be counted backward from the date of issuance of NIT  
 
 
IFB NO.- BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                                  Page 4 of 96 
 
 
Note to Clause 5.1 (Technical Criteria): 
 
a) In support of and in order to establish the aforesaid experience as per Clause No. 5. 1.1, the 
bidder must submit the following documents:  
I. Tenderer has to submit all supporting credentials like PO/ WO / COA/ Experience 
certificates in support of technical criteria. 
II. In case of Manufacturer’s Authorized Dealer, the Bidder shall submit authorization from 
manufacturer for participation in the tender. 
III. In case of Dealership for trading of Steel rods / bars etc., the dealership certificate must 
be submitted. 
 
The word “suppli ed/ supplying” means the Tenderer should have achieved the criteria 
specified in the above QR within the preceding five (5) financial year period even if the 
contract has been started earlier and / or is not completed /closed. 
 
5.2 Financial Criteria: Tenderer shall have the following minimum level of financial capacity to 
qualify for the performance of the Supply under the Tender. 
 
The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, in the immediately preceding three financial 
years ending on (last financial year end d ate) shoul d not be less than BDT 22.61 Cr.  
(equivalent to USD 18,53,000 for vendors outside of Bangladesh) 
 
 
 
Note to Clause 5.2.1 (Financial Criteria): 
In support of and in order to establish the AAT as per Clause 2.1, the bidder shall submit the 
audited copy of ‘Annual Financial Report/ Balance Sheet/Profit & Loss Statement’ of relevant 
financial years.  
 
a) In cases where audited financial results for the immediately preceding financial years are 
not available, certification of the financial statements from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall also be considered acceptable. In case, the bidder is not able to submit the certificate 
from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial results of the immediately 
preceding financial year, the audited financial results of preceding three consecutive financial 
years may be submitted and the same shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidd ing documents stating that the Financial results of the Company for 
immediately preceding Financial years are under audit and the Certificate would be required 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Bidder must also submit the copy of income tax return for the relevant years. 
 
b) Other income of bidder shall not be considered for arriving at the annual turnover. 
 
5.3 General Notes for Qualifying Requirements:  
i. All relevant certificates/ authenticated documents in support of the Qualifying Requirements 
shall have to be submitted by the bidder along with its bid. All the certificates must be 
authenticated by the authorized signatory of the bidder. Without such certificates / 
authenticated document or where the certificate / authenticated document are found to be 
unsatisfactory by BIFPCL, the Bid may be considered as non-responsive. 
IFB NO.- BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/052                                  Page 5 of 96 
 
ii. In case the end user(s) does not issue certificate to the bidder, but issues the certificate 
directly only to BIFPCL based on a re quest by the bidder, such certificate shall also be 
considered as part and parcel of the bidder’s submission, provided the bidder submits copy 
of such request letter (duly authenticated as above) along with its Technical Proposal. 
iii. BIFPCL reserves the right  to reject the Bid of the bidder(s) and forfeit the Bid Security, 
where any certificate or document submitted or representation made in support of the 
Qualifying Requirements is found to be false/untrue or fake. 
iv. Further certified photocopies of latest documents related to Valid National Identification 
Card (NID), Updated Trade License, Tax Identification Number (TIN), Latest income 
Tax Return Certificate/Acknowledgement slip, BIN/VAT Registration Certificate and 
other documents needed to be disclosed by ven dor or to be 
obtained/maintained/complied as per law of GOB from the prospective bidders. 
 
6.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, BIFPCL reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the bidder and/or consortium partner(s) and/or Holding 
company and/or Subsidiary company and/or Joint Venture company and/or Subsidiary 
of Holding company and/or the Sub -vendors and/or Suppliers and/or Sub -contractors 
to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the 
overall interest of BIFPCL. 
 
 
7.0 Notwithstanding any other provision of the Bidding Document, BIFPCL reserves the 
right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw / modify the Invitation for Bid without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, no bidder/ prospective bidder shall 
have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
8.0 prospective bidders may download the Bidding Document from www.bifpcl.com, the 
website of BIFPCL; Prospective bidders are advised to keep visiting the bel ow 
mentioned website for any amendment(s)/ clarification(s)/errata to the Bidding 
Document or any other information related to this Invitation for Bid, which shall be 
posted on the website. Tender copy may be downloaded from BIFPCL website. 
 
8.1 Issuance of Bidding Document to any bidder shall not construe to mean that such a 
bidder is considered to be qualified.  
8.2 The transfer or sharing of the Bidding Document purchased or downloaded by one 
intending bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
8.3 A bidder shall only submit one Bid. A firm can participate only as on individual basis. 
No joint venture or consortium is allowed to participate in this tender. 
 
9.0 Bids shall be submitted and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
bidders’ representatives, who so choose to attend. 
 
10.0 Address for communication: 
   
Chief Procurement Officer,  
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited,  
Level-17, Borak Unique Heights,  
117, Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue,  
Eskaton Garden, Dhaka-1000, 
Mob. No.: +8801713559780/+8801755634507 
E-mail:cpo@bifpcl.com / kvmohan@bifpcl.com / kazirummanislam@bifpcl.com 
Website: www.bifpcl.com 
