 
 
 
25.09.2025 
 

Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited 
(A Joint Venture of Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), 
Bangladesh and NTPC Ltd., India) 
 
(International Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BID (IFB) 
(SECTION-I) 
 
FOR 
 
 
PROCUREMENT AND DELIVERY OF LIMESTONE 
AT PLANT JETTY 
 
FOR  
 
2x660 MW MAITREE SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT  
   
AT 
 
Rampal, District- Bagerhat, Bangladesh 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.: BIFPCL/MSTPP/LIMESTONE

Page 1 of 7 
INVITATION FOR BID 
(SECTION-I) 
 
IFB No.: BIFPCL/MSTPP/LIMESTONE/2025/1049                Date: 25.09.2025 
 
1.0 Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited ( “BIFPCL”), acting as the 
Employer, invites sealed bid from eligible bidders for Procurement and Delivery of 
Limestone at Plant Jetty  for the 2x660 MW Maitree Super Thermal Power Project 
(“2x660 MW Maitree STPP ” or “MSTPP”) (the “Project”) at Rampal, following Single 
Stage Two Envelope  bidding procedure (Envelope-1: Technical  Proposal and 
Envelope-2: Financial Proposal), as per the Scope of Work mentioned in brief  
hereinafter. 
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
The Contractor shall supply Limestone considering the parameters/ conditions 
stipulated in the Bidding Documents, to MSTPP Plant Jetty (i.e. the Limestone 
Delivery Point  [LDP]) on a single point responsibility basis (i.e. delivered at MSTPP 
Plant Jetty), including but not limited to arranging vessels, stevedoring, handling the 
scheduled shipments, storage, cargo insurance, port clearances, arranging and 
ensuring transshipment (if required)  and barges, loading, transportation, draft survey, 
quality sampling and analysis, bunkering and pilotage services, arranging and deploying 
tug boats, berthing/ mooring at the transhipment site  (if transhipment required) and 
delivery at the 2x660 MW MSTPP Plant Jetty. All other related activities, including 
clearing and forwarding of the consignments, customs clearance, coordination with 
Ports and any statutory authorities, shall also be part of Scope of Work of the 
Successful Bidder. All liaison, c oordination at the load ports/ Limestone Loading Points 
(LLPs) and any other intervening ports, managing and operating the transhipment site  
(if  transshipment required), handling agents, etc., shall also be part of Scope of Work of 
the Successful Bidder. Bidder is requested to go through the complete specification for 
the detailed scope of work, which is described in this Section of the Bidding Document, 
towards ensuring smooth and trouble -free operation of all activities in supply chain 
required for ensuring limestone delivery at the MSTPP Plant Jetty. 
The detailed Scope of Work is provided in the Technical Specification  (Section-IV) of 
the Bidding Document . Bidder shall consider the Bidding Document in its entirety for 
complete understanding and interpretation of the Scope of Work and Services and shall 
submit a Proposal that meets the complete requirement of the Bidding Document. 
 
3.0 The Bidding Document is available for purchase from the address mentioned below. The 
bidding process schedule is indicated below: 
 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 7 
 
Bidding Document No. BIFPCL/MSTPP/LIMESTONE 
Bidding Document Sale Date  
and Time 
From 25.09.2025(10:00 Hrs. (BST)) to  
09.11.2025 (17:00 Hrs. (BST)) 
Last Date for submission of 
pre-bid Query 
26.10.2025 (17:00 Hrs. (BST)) 
Pre-Bid Meeting  26.10.2025 (11:00 Hrs.(BST)) 
Bid (Envelope-1& Envelope-2) 
Receipt Date & Time                 
Upto 11:00 Hrs. (BST) on 10.11.2025 
Envelope-1 (Technical) 
Proposal Opening Date & Time                  
10.11.2025 at 11:30 Hrs.(BST) 
Date of Opening of Envelope -2 (Financial) Proposal shall be intimated separately 
after Evaluation of Envelope-1 (Technical) Proposals. 
 
Prospective bidders may please note that this is an indicative bidding process schedule 
and may be amended or modified by BIFPCL subsequently.  
 
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of USD 55,000 (US Dollar 
Fifty-Five Thousand only) 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY BIFPCL AS BEING 
NON-RESPONSIVE. 
 
5.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidder 
5.1 Qualification Route:  
5.1.1 A bidder can be a firm meeting any one of the technical criteria stip ulated at Clause 5.2  
(i) or 5.2 (ii) or 5.2 (iii)  and financia l criteria mentioned at Clause 5.3 , as may be 
applicable.  
 
or 
 
5.1.2 A bidder can be a consortium of a maximum of three (03) firms, collectively meeting any 
one of the technical criteria stipulated at Clause 5.2 (i) or 5.2 (ii) or 5.2 (iii) hereunder and 
financial criteria mentioned at Clause 5.3.  
Each partner of the consortium shall meet at least 25% of any one of the technical 
criteria requirement stipulated at Clause 5.2 (i) or 5.2 (ii) or 5.2 (iii) or at least 25% of the 
Financial Criteria mentioned at Clause 5.3(i). 
The consortium shall necessarily identify one of the partners as lead partner who shall 
meet on its own at least 51% of the Technical Criteria mentioned at Clause 5.2(i) or 5.2 
(ii) or 5.2 (iii) and at least 20% of Financial Criteria mentioned at Clause 5.3(i). 
 
5.2 Technical Criteria:  
(i) Bidder should have imported/exported and supplied a minimum of 40000 (Forty 
Thousand) Metric Tonnes (MT) of dry bulk solid commodity(ies) like Coal, Limestone, 

Page 3 of 7 
 
Iron Ore, Fertilizers, Chemicals, Cement etc to any firm in any continuous twelve (12) 
months in one or multiple contracts during the past six (6) years reckoned from the date 
of opening of Technical Proposal. 
OR 
(ii) Bidder can be a Limestone mine Owner or Holding Company of a Limestone mine 
Owner and should have exported a minimum of 40000 (Forty Thousand) Metric Tonnes 
(MT) of limestone, in any continuous twelve (12) months period in one or multiple 
contracts, during the past six (6) years reckoned from the date of Technical Proposal.  
OR 
(iii) Bidder should have performed transportation through sea route of a minimum of 40000 
(Forty Thousand) Metric Tonnes (MT) of dry bulk solid commodity(ies) like Coal, 
Limestone, Iron Ore, Fertilizers, Chemicals, Cement etc. in any continuous twelve (12) 
months period in one or multiple contracts during the past six (6) years reckoned from 
the date of opening of Technical Proposal. 
 
Note to Clause 5.2 (Technical Criteria):  
 
1) In support of and in order to establish the aforesaid experience, the bidder shall 
furnish experience certificate from seller/ purchaser/ its client, along with 
certificate(s) in original from the statutory auditor(s) of the bidder, or any other 
relevant authentic document. 
2) Dry (bulk) solid commodity mentioned at  Clause 5.2 above means dry solid bulk 
cargo Appendix-4 (page 352 to 358) of International Maritime Solid Bulk Cargoes 
(IMSBC) code MSC 84/24/Add.3. 
 
5.3 Financial Criteria: 
i. The average annual turnover of the bidder, in the immediately preceding three 
financial years, as on 1st July 202 4, should not be less than USD 5.48 Million 
(US Dollar Five Million and Four Hundred Eighty Thousand)  or its equivalent in 
any other currency, as evidenced by the audited financial statements  of the 
bidder. 
 
ii. Net Worth of the bidder, as on the last date of the financial year immediately 
preceding 1 st July 202 4, should not be less than 100% of its paid -up share 
capital. 
 
iii. In case of a bid submitted by a consortium, the turnover shall be considered on a 
combined manner for all the consortium partners. Total Net worth of all 
consortium partners in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their 
paid up share capital. However , the Net worth of each consortium partner 
individually should not be less than 75% of their own paid up share capital. 

Page 4 of 7 
 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
 
where X1, X2, X3  are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of 
the respective paid up share capital and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual respective paid 
up share capitals of each consortium partner. 
 
Note to Clause 5.3 (Financial Criteria):  
1. Financial year immediately preceding 1st July 2024 means FY ending between 
the period 1st July 2023 and 30th June 2024. (Like FY ending on 30th June 
2024/ 31st March 2024 / 31st December 2024 / 30th September 2024 /any 
other date as per country -specific requirement in respect of the financial 
statement).  
 
For the purpose of Clause 5.3(i) above, turnover of the bidder or consortium 
partner for the Financial Years ending during the period 1st July 2023 to 30th 
June 2024, 1st July 2022 to 30th June 2023 & 1st July 2021 to 30th June 2022 
shall be considered. 
2. In case the bidder is an individual firm as per clause 5.1.1 and does not 
satisfy the financial criteria stipulated at Clause 5.3(i) above on its own and 
takes the strength from its Holding Company or Subsidiary Company or a 
Joint Venture Company or Subsidiary Company  of its Holding Company, as 
stipulated at Clause 5.4(ii) below, the Net worth of both the bidder and its 
Holding Company or Subsidiary Company or Joint Venture Company or 
Subsidiary Company of its Holding Company, as the case may be, should 
not be less than 100% of their paid up share capital as on the last date of 
the preceding financial year. The bidder has to maintain the relationship 
status with its such Holding Company or Subsidiary Company or Joint 
Venture Company or Subsidiary Company of its Holding Company  for a 
lock-in period of the entire duration of the contract. Further, provided that in 
the event the bidder seeks to draw strength from its Joint Venture Company, 
the bidder should necessarily be holding a minimum of 26% of voting equity 
in such Joint Venture company for such duration; 
3. In cases where audited financial results for the immediately preceding financial 
year as on 1st July 2024  are not available, certification of the financial 
statements from a practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered 
acceptable. In case, the bidder or consortium partner is not able to submit the 
certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited financial results of three consecutive financial years 
immediately preceding 1st July 2024  may be submitted and the same shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would 
be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 

Page 5 of 7 
 
documents stating that the Financial results of the Company for immediately 
preceding Financial Year are under audit and the Certificate would be required 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is 
not available. 
4. In case the bidder or consortium partner is not able to furnish its audited 
financial statements on a standalone -entity basis, the un -audited 
unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder or the consortium partner may 
be considered acceptable, provided that the bidder or the consortium partner 
further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
i. Copies of the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder or 
consortium partner along with the copies of audited consolidated financial 
statements of its Holding Company, 
ii. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the un-audited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company. 
5. Net Worth means the sum total  of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the 
extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from Reserves and 
Surplus; 
6. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at the annual turnover; 
7. For turnover indicated in a currency other than USD in the Financial 
Statements, the exchange rate of The Federal Reserve, the Central Bank of US, 
as on the last date of relevant Financial Year of the bidder Company shall be 
used for conversion to USD. In case the Federal Reserve exchange rate is not 
available for the currency indicated in the Financial Statements, USD selling 
rate of the Central Bank of the home country of the currency of the Financial 
Statement, as on the last date of relevant Financial Year of the bidder Company 
shall be used for conversion to USD. 
 
5.4 Note to Qualifying Requirements for Bidders:  
i. In case the bidder is an Individual firm as per Clause 5.1.1 and does not meet the 
Technical and/or Financial Criteria on its own, the bidder may take strength from 
its Related Party (as defined herein below ) to meet the Technical criteria 
stipulated at Clause 5.2 (i) or 5.2 (ii) or 5.2 (iii)  and/ or the Financial criteria 
stipulated at Clause 5.3(i).  
In such case, the bidder has to furnish along with its bid, a Deed of Joint 
Undertaking ( “DJU”) with the related party as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding document, failing which, the bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall 
be rejected. All th e executants of DJU shall be jointly and severally liable to the 
Employer/BIFPCL for the successful performance of the contract. The bidder has 

Page 6 of 7 
 
to maintain the relationship status with its Related Party for a lock-in period of the 
entire duration of the contract. 
ii. In case the bidder is taking strength from its Related Party for meeting the 
financial requirement at Clause 5.3(i), it shall furnish a Letter of Undertaking from 
such related party, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for 
the execution of the Contract by the bidder, in case of award. 
iii. In case the bidder is a consortium of firms, each consortium partner shall meet its 
portion of Technical and/or Financial criteria of Qualifying Requirement on its 
own and shall not take strength of its related party for qualification. 
iv. A ‘ Related Party’ shall mean the  Holding Company or Subsidiary Company or 
Joint Venture Company or Subsidiary Company of the bidder’s Holding 
Company. Further, in the event the bidder seeks to draw strength from its Joint 
Venture Company, the bidder should necessarily be holding a minimum of 26% 
of voting equity in such Joint Venture company.  
v. In case the bidder is a consortium of firms as per Clause 5.1.2, the bidder shall 
provide, along with their bid, a consortium agreement, in original, as Attachment -
3F, to its Technical Proposal Submission Letter, as per the proforma prescribed 
in Section V(B) of the Bidding Document, failing which the concerned bidder(s) 
shall be disqualified and the bid shall be rejected. All the executants of the 
consortium agreement shall be jointly and severally liable to the 
Employer/BIFPCL to perform the contract successfully, including all the activities 
included in the scope of work and all contractual obligation s set out under the 
contract. 
vi. All relevant certificates / authenticated documents in support of the Qualifying 
Requirements shall have to be submitted by the bidder along with its bid. All the 
certificates must be authenticated by the authorized signatory of the bidder or the 
lead partner,in the case of a consortium of bidders. Without such certificates / 
authenticated document or where the certificate / authenticated document are 
found to be unsatisfactory by  BIFPCL, the Bid may be considered as non-
responsive. 
vii. In case the end user(s) does not issue certificate to the bidder (or to a partner of 
the consortium, in case the bidder is a consortium), but issues the certificate 
directly only to BIFPCL based on a request by the bidder (or the consortium 
partner), such certificate shall also be considered as part and parcel of the 
bidder’s submission, provided the bidder submits copy of such request letter 
(duly authenticated as above) along with its Technical Proposal. 
viii. BIFPCL reserves the right to reject the Bid of the bidder(s) and forfeit the Bid 
Security, where any certificate or document submitted or representation made in 
support of the Qualifying Requirements is found to be false/untrue or fake. 
5.5 Notwithstanding anything stated above, BIFPCL reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the bidder and/or consortium partner(s) and/or Holding 
company and/or Subsidiary company and/or Joint Venture company and/or Subsidiary of 
Holding company and/or the Sub-vendors and/or Suppliers and/or Sub -contractors to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of BIFPCL. 

Page 7 of 7 
 
 
6 Notwithstanding any other provision of the Bidding Document, BIFPCL reserves the right 
to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw  / modify  the Invitation for Bid without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case , no bidder/ prospective bidder shall 
have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
7 The Bidding Document may be purchased by the prospective bidders from the address 
mentioned here below after making payment  of BDT 10,000 or USD 12 0 in the form of 
Demand Draft or Pay Order in favour of Bangladesh -India Friendship Power Company 
(Pvt.) Limited towards the cost of the Bidding Document, failing which their bid shall not 
be accepted and shall be returned . Prospective bidders are advised to keep visiting the 
below mentioned website for any amendment(s)/clarification(s)/errata to the Bidding 
Document or any other information related to this Invitation for Bid, which shall be posted 
on the website. 
 
7.1 Issuance of Bidding Document to any bidder shall not construe to mean that such a 
bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
7.2 The transfer or sharing of the Bidding Document purchased  by one intending bidder to 
another is not permissible. 
 
7.3 A bidder or its constituents (i.e. the consortium partners, if any, therein) shall only submit 
one Bid. A firm can participate in only one form – either as an individual company or as a 
consortium partner; bids submitted by a firm in more than one form /capacity shall be 
rejected. A firm participating in the bidding process as an individual company or as a 
consortium partner shall ascertain that the Holding / Subsidiary / Joint Venture company / 
Subsidiary of Holding , from which it may be deriving  support to meet the Qualifying 
Requirements, does not lend support to any other participating individual company or 
consortium partner, failing which all such bids shall be liable to be rejected. 
 
7.4 Bids shall be subm itted and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
bidders’ representatives, who so choose to attend. 
 
8 Address for communication:    
Chief Procurement Officer,  
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited,  
Level-17, Borak Unique Heights,  
117, Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue,  
Eskaton Garden, Dhaka-1000, 
Mob. No.:+8801329667547 
Tel. No.: +880258314264; 
E-mail:limestonesourcing@bifpcl.com  
Website: www.bifpcl.com 
 
--- 
