DETAILED INV
ITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900311158 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
1 of 4 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
PROJECT CC&M, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)   
FOR 
CONSTRUCTION OF ACCESS/ APPROACH ROADS FOR TTPS STAGE - III 
LOCATED AT 
TALCHER THERMAL POWER PROJECT 
P.O.- Deepashikha, PO/PS-Angul, Odisha
 (Domestic Com
petitive Bidding) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No:9900311158    Date: 06.10.2025 
GePNIC ID:  2025_NTPC_100795 
1.0  NTPC Limited invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0       BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
T h e  s c o p e  o f  w o r k  u n d e r  t h i s  c o n t r a c t  s h a l l  b e  c i v i l  w o r k s  f o r  construction of access 
and approach roads for facilitating erection and construction activities in the Stage – III 
Project area as per requirement and direction of Engineer-In-Charge. The work shall be 
carried out on requirement basis and will generally not involve continuous or long 
stretches a nd  the wor k u nd er the contract shall be u tili zed  i n case of exigencies. The 
instruction of EIC shall be followed and work to be carried out  as per technical 
specification and BOQs at Talcher, Odisha and shall generally i nclude (but not limited 
to) civil works such as carriage/earthwork/ concrete/ GSB etc.  
Detailed s
cope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through a mix of debt and equity. 
4.0 Detailed specifications, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at  Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of 
IFB 06.10.2025 
Documents Download Date and Time From 06.10.2025 
Last Date of receipt of queries from 
prospective bidders 
17.10.2025 
DETAILED INV
ITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900311158 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
2 of 4 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time Not Applicable  
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price)  
Up to 1500 hrs (IST) on 27.10.2025 
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
28.10.2025 at 1500 hrs (IST) 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR INR 2250.00 
Note: 
Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by th e Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if app licable) as specified 
above. 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount  o f  INR 5,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Five Lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents. 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPA RATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE THE BID SECURITY IS  
SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUB MIT 
THE PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALE D 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
5.1  Acceptable Tender Fee payment proof shall be uploaded by all the bidder in the “Fee 
Cover” at the GePNIC Portal. 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
The Bidder should meet the minim um Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at  
Annexure-I to IFB.  
7.0       Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the  right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his co llaborators / associates/ sub sidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such ass essment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
8.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/wi thdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bid der / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any i nterested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited  under e-tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves on the website https://eprocur entpc.nic.in/ using the 
option “online Bidder Enrolment”. The said website also has the  detailed guidelines on 
enrolment and participation in the biddin g process includin g Bidder Manual for online fee 
DETAILED INV
ITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900311158 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
3 of 4 
payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
10.0 O n l y  'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this t ender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
11.0    Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specif ied Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country whic h shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder i s registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to  bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of Indi a is engaged in 
development projects. 
12.0   
Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not constr ue that such Bidder is 
considered to be qualified. 
13.0    Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
14.0 Address for Communication: 
Sr. Manager (CS) / AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limit
ed, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,
Distt. Gau
tam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA
Pin - 201 301
Tel. No.: 0120 49
46555, 4946535  
E-mail: shiprakumari@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or
www.ntpc
tender.ntpc.co.in or  
www.ntpc.co.in 
15.0    Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bha
wan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
DETAILED INV
ITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900311158 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
4 of 4 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
  ANNEXURE – I to IFB 
Qualifying Requirements for Construction of an Access/ Approach Roads for Talcher 
Thermal Stage - III 
1. Technical Criteria:
1.1 The bidder should have executed ‘Construction of Concrete Road(s)’ within preceding 
seven (07) years prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening, meeting the following 
criteria:   
a) One order of value not less than ₹	3.06	Cr
OR 
b) Two orders of valu
e not less than ₹	1.91	Cr	each
OR 
c) Th
ree orders order of value not less than ₹	1.53	Cr	each.
N
otes for 1.1: 
1.The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder sho uld have achieved the
cr
iteria specified above, even if the total contract is started  e a r l i e r  a n d / o r  i s  n o t
completed/closed.
2
.In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed  prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening duly certified by Project Authority shall be considered acceptable.
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be consider ed
pr
ovided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly cert ified by Project Authori ty,
spe
cifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying
requirements. Project Authority means the owner of the project with whom the main contractor
is engaged.
4
. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint  Venture /Consortium /
Associate can also be considered provided:
A. The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures /
con
sortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint  venture agreement /
consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the bidder's scope of work and
b
reak-up of quantities executed by them as individual contribution in the joint Venture
/
 Consortium / Associate, duly authenticated by the Project Aut hority, meet the
relevant provisions of eligibility criteria.
B. In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder i n an integrated joint
venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break-up of qua ntities  between the
partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint ventu re Agreement, then for
establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria above, t he credit of execute d
qu
antities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio of bidder's share in the integrated
j
oint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder establishes that it regularly undertakes
works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture
sh
all be duly authenticated by the Project Authority/owner.
5. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be 
considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder shou ld provide the breakup of basic 
value and taxes. 
 
6. For evaluation purpose, the Value of reference work, submitt ed by the bidder for 
consideration, shall be escalated each year @5% from the date o f completion of reference 
work till the date of Techno-commercial Bid opening. 
2.  Financial Criteria: 
2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be less th an Rupees  1.91  
Crore only during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
2.2 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial  statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the  following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification. 
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of  the bidder along with 
copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolid ated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the c ompany. 
 
2.3 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial  year as on the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, B idder is not able to submit 
the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying  its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall 
be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further,  a  C e r t i f i c a t e  w o u l d  b e  
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bid ding documents stating 
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on  the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 2.0 :  
 
1.Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2.“Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
 
 