Page 1 of 2 
 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
  
Sub: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for “Application of paint on steel structures, 
pipelines & equipment” for various NTPC Stations” Under OFF-07 
 
 A)  MEG DETAILS    
  1.0  MEG NO.  OFF-07  
  2.0  MEG DESCRIPTION  Application of paint on steel structures, pipelines & equipment” 
for various NTPC Stations 
  3.0  RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE  CPG-1/ VDC  
B)  Technical Criteria:  
1. The applicant should have executed the work of application of paint on metallic surfaces for 
height not less than 15 -meter within the preceding last five (5) years from the date of 
application. 
2. The applicant should have executed the work of application of paint on metallic surfaces for 
a minimum value of Rs. 4 lakhs in a single PO/award/contract within the preceding last five 
(5) years from the date of application. 
C)  Other Documents to be uploaded: In addition to the documents required in support of  Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at B) above, following documents are also required to  be uploaded by the 
applicants applying for enlistment: - 
QR1.Three POs of the highest executed values of similar works during previous five years from the 
date of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the  concerned buyer/s in 
support of successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
QR2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three  completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
QR3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate. 
QR4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
QR 5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all documents/ facilities can be  verified/ 
assessed if required. 
Page 2 of 2 
 
D)  Similar 
Works 
Similar work means applicant should have executed paint application work (s) on 
metallic surfaces within the preceding last five (5) years from the date of application. 
E) BRIEF 
SCOPE OF 
WORK 
The scope of work includes application of paint on internal/external surfaces of 
pipelines, tanks, equipment and metallic structures in Boiler area, TG area, Ash 
handling plant, Water treatment plant, Coal handling plant, CW pump house, Make -
up water pump house and anywhere on steel surfaces in NTPC plant.  Supply and 
erection of ‘Scaffolding’ / ‘Manlift or boom lift’ will be in the scope of applicant. 
F)  QUALITY  
PLAN 
ATTACHED 
G) Category of 
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-1 
 
  
  
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 1 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
1.0 SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope of work includes application of paint on internal/external surfaces of  
pipelines, tanks, equipment and metallic structures in Boiler area, TG area, Ash 
handling plant, Water treatment plant, Coal handling plant, CW pump house, 
Make-up water pump house and anywhere on steel surfaces in NTPC  plant. 
Painting work may be required to carry out up to a height of ……m. 
 
2.0 PAINT MATERIALS (NTPC SCOPE) 
 
The following painting system (s) has to be applied. Supply of paints is in NTPC 
scope. The system may consist of two (2) / three (3) coats of necessary Dry Film 
Thickness (DFT): 
 
Table 1 (Indentors may add more tables as per painting systems adopted for 
various areas/equipment): 
 
Type of coat                                     Type of paint                   
 
Required DFT  
(in microns) 
First coat 
 
  
Second 
coat/under coat 
  
Top coat   
Total Dry Film Thickness  
 
3.0 SURFACE PREPARATION 
 
Before taking up the surface preparation work, the extent of work involved and the 
methodology for thorough clean ing of the surface shall be join tly assessed by the 
agency and NTPC. Accordingly, following suitable cleaning methods for surface 
preparation based on the surface condition may be carried out by the agency prior 
to painting: 
a) Hand tool cleaning: Prior to blasting / power tool cleaning, surfaces shall be free 
from any foreign matter such as, loosely adhering paint, weld flux, rust or thick 
rust sca le, oil, grease, salt etc. Suitable hand tools like scrappers, brushes, 
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 2 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
abrasive pads, chisels, knives and chippi ng hammers are to be mobilized b y 
the agency. If required, water washing for removal of the salt contamination 
from the surface shall be done. 
 
b) Power tool cleaning: Agency has to provide suitable power tools (pneumatic or 
electrically operated) tools to obtain required level of surface profile depending 
upon the condition of surface. 
Glossy area of sound previous coatings need not be removed but should be 
mechanically abraded to create a surface profile to increase coating adhesion. 
c) Blast cleaning: Surface preparation by copper grit blas ting to achieve required 
surface profile depending upon the condition of surface. 
Surface preparation either through Power  tool cleaning or Blast cleaning shall 
be carried out depending upon approach of areas and metallic surface 
condition. 
 
d) Surface condi tion immediately before painting:   After the preparation of the 
surface to an acceptable standard of c leanliness and profile, steelwork should 
not be allowed to deteriorate. Re -rusting can occur very quickly . Any re-rusting 
of the surface should be removed by re-blasting. 
 
e) After the surface preparation, first coat , second coat  and/or topcoat should be 
applied. The maximum interval coat timing shall be as per manufacturer’s 
standard data sheet or NTPC approved procedure. 
 
f) Paint Application Requirement: 
Painting shall be performed when the relative humidity of the air is less than 
85% or as per manufacturer ’s specifications. In addition, paints shall not be 
applied under the following conditions: 
i. When the surface temperature is greater than 60°C. 
ii. When the air temperature is less than approximately 5°C. 
iii. When there is likelihood of an unfavorable change in wea ther conditions 
within two hours after painting. 
iv. When there is a deposition of moisture in the form of rain, condensation, 
frost, etc., on the surface. 
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 3 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
v. The applicator shall continue to track wet film thickness (WFT) during 
application so that correct DFT is obtained after curing and drying. 
 
4.0 AGENCY’S SCOPE 
 
1. Before start of application of paint, painting methodology/procedure to  be 
finalized and approval of EIC to be obtained. 
 
2. Transportation of paints from central stores or any other location in plant to 
place of work is in the scope of agency. Paint materials should be stored at 
demarcated place in clean, cool and dry condi tion. Fire extinguishers should 
be available at place of paint storage. 
 
3. Blasting machines, compressors and their accessorie s, blasting abrasive, 
power tools, scrappers, Gloves, Brushes, wire brushes, emery paper, buffing 
machines and buffing wheels, sand p aper, cotton waste, markin  cloth to be 
arranged by t he agency at his own cost.  For spray -painting, spray nozzles 
and mixing containers etc. are in agency’s scope. 
 
4. Agency has to arrange for required lettering templates towards naming etc.  
During letter wr iting, if spelling mistakes occur, contractor has to redo the 
lettering and no extra cost will be paid for the same. Hence, contractor has to 
clarify clearly before the application. 
 
5. Machines and equipment like, compressor, nozzles, hoses et c. shall be in 
good o rder, calibrated and proven to give required performance. The 
compressed air should be free from moist ure and oil mist. There should be a 
regular check on the pressure vessel, hose, compressor, and drying units. 
 
6. For water washing, water tankers, pump, hose, nozzles etc. shall be arranged 
by the agency. Water shall be provided by NTPC to agency free of cost. 
 
7. Dry film thi ckness meter with valid calibration certificate, Wet film t hickness 
gauges, Motorized stirrer for paint mixing, Psychrometer for measureme nt of 
RH and all other instruments, tools and tackles required for the job and 
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality inspection. 
 
8. Agency should estimate the available area and calculate the required quantity  
of paint before mixing the paint.  
  
9. Contractor has to maintain records for cl eaning of surface, DFT checking of 
old paint before applying new paint, DFT checking of every coat. The agency 
shall maintain register on daily basis and  should be available at the site for 
verification. 
 
10. Agency should return the empty containers t o NTPC s tores through MRN. 
The pa int reconciliation statement indicating th e paint drawn from stores, 
paint consumed, and empty drums return should be submitted on fortnightly 
basis to EIC. Paint consumption may be calculated considering below table. 
The table shows the approximate coverage efficiencies  expected for various  
surfaces and application conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Taking con nections from Employer’s terminal points (for electricity) to 
Application Method 
Surface Coating Efficiency 
 Brush/Roller Airless 
Spray/Interior 
Airless 
Spray/Exterior 
Airless 
Spray/Windy 
Conditions 
New Smooth 
Steel  
0.87  0.78  0.68  0.49  
Blast Cleaned  
Steel  
0.83  0.74  0.65  0.46  
Power Tool 
Cleaned Steel  
0.79  0.70  0.61  0.44  
Blasted Steel 
– lightly 
pitted  
0.79  0.70  0.61  0.44  
Blasted Steel 
– heavily 
pitted  
0.74  0.70  0.58  0.41  
Rough 
Concrete or 
Masonry  
0.61  0.66  0.47  0.34  
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
respective work locatio ns. Required electrical fixtures, cables, bulbs, flood 
lights, fittings etc. is in agency’s scope. 
 
12. Protection of areas like name plates, view glasses, indicato rs, level gauges, 
bolts and nuts, joints etc. on the equipment shall b e taken care of before 
painting. Special care to be taken to see that the identification bands and 
inscriptions are not disturbed while  doing the painting jobs. Polyethylene 
sheets, papers and any other protection covers is in scope of agency. 
 
13. Cleaning of  the unpainted surfaces li ke nameplates etc. after completion of 
painting, as required. 
 
14. For all bought out materials, tools and plants , agency shall maintain invoice/ 
voucher and take CISF gate entry pass before entering in to the plant. A copy 
of all bought out materials, tools & plants shall be submitted to the EIC prior to 
start the work for approval. 
 
15. The agency has to deploy experienced and adequate labour force of required 
skill in  different categories such as unskilled, semi -skilled, skilled, highly  
skilled etc., so as to ex ecute the works Safely, Timely and simultaneously in 
all the areas of work with best Quality. 
 
16. Since the resp onsibility for the quality, workmanship and accurac y of any 
work being carried out lies with the agency, the agency shoul d ensure that no 
work is d one without the presence of his competent representative at the 
work spot. 
 
17. Safety appliances like Full Body Harness safety belts (double lanyard), Safety 
helmets, Safety boots, and Gas masks required for the safety of the workmen  
and tools like Pulley blo cks, Steel wire ropes, Manila ropes, Painter Goggles 
and gloves will have to be provided by the agency at his  cost. The agency 
has to provide Safety Net also at  his own cost as per requirement and as per 
decision of Engineer-In-Charge. 
 
18. Prior to the start of the day to day activities agency to prepare “Job Safety 
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis” to identify potential hazards and implement preventive measures for 
doing work safely. 
 
19. The platform system is the crucial Spl. T&P of this entire work which wil l 
assist in painting work and also in speeding up the job & meet the time 
schedule meticulously. It shall be suitable for the job requi rement and shall be 
arranged by the agency. 
 
The system may consist of scaffolding, hanging platforms, cradles, temporary  
lifts or combination of s uch systems meant to give safe approach to work 
areas. 
 
No bamboo scaffolding is permitted. 
 
The SOW by the agency for the platform system includes: 
 
a) Transportation of the entire platform system components up to site, erection 
of the system for approach of various areas. 
 
b) Proper maintenance of the platform system throughout the execution period 
of the work. Repai rs, if any, are to be immediately attende d without 
hampering the work. 
 
c) Dismantling of the platform system after completi on of the work and 
transporting back. 
 
d) All the temporary holes or cavities made for the purpose of fasteners /anchors 
etc., during the process of erection of platform system should be re filled 
suitably after the completion of work as per instructions of EIC. 
 
5.0 NTPC SCOPE  
 
1. Electrical supply shall be provided free of cost at Employer’s terminal points. 
However, additional connection with ne cessary fittings, cables, hoses shall 
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
have to be done by the agency. 
 
2. Water for cleaning, if required, shall be provided by NTPC to agency without 
any charge. 
 
3. The colour coding scheme of NTPC shall be followed and the scheme will be 
provided by NTPC. 
 
6.0 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE 
 
The agency shall guarantee succ essful performance of painting system for a 
period of Minimum 6 months from the date of comple tion of the job. During  
guarantee period, rust index will be Ri4 as per ISO 4628-3. 
 
There should be joint insp ection schedule by the agency and NTPC. Any defects  
like pinpoint rusting, blistering, peeling, flaking, inter -coat delamination, cratering, 
cracking etc . observed during the guarantee period shall be made good by the 
agency at no extra cost to the owner. The defects identified shall be rectified within 
one month from the date of joint inspection. No payment shall be m ade for the 
rectification works carried out during warranty period. 
 
Documentation: All the inspection work at various hold points is to be we ll 
documented. The daily inspection sheet, any repair work, and issues related to the 
work, photograph, test result, calib ration documents, re solution of disputes, Non-
Conformity Report, project summary etc. shall be part of it.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
                                                       
   
NTPC WR-II HQ 
RAIPUR 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
CEG FOR PAINTING 
APPLICATION CONTRACT 
  
 
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
7.0 NOTES FOR INDENTORS (Site specific) 
a) Indentor may refer  OGN-OPS-SYST-028 for additional requirements of 
paint application works, if any. 
b) Indentor has to add other terms and conditions like Manpower deployment, 
Security Deposit, contract period, e xtension of contract, Payment terms, 
Deviation limits, safety etc. 
c) Indentor has to specify maximum height for paint application works. 
d) Surface profile to be obtained thro ugh power tool cleaning  (St 3 or lower) 
or blast cleaning (Sa 2.5 or lower) shall be specified based on steel surface 
condition.  
e) Performance guarantee of minimum  6 months is specified. Ind entor may 
specify more duration for performance guarantee.  
f) Indentor may specify s uitable penalty towards cost o f paint  if consumed 
excessively by contractor. 
g) Indentor may specify suitable penalty towards cost o f paint  consumed 
during rectification works carried out in warranty period.  
h) Provision of Boom Lift / Man lift m ay be considered instead of Scaffolding  
system for height works. Work through boom lift is  carried out safe ly and 
speedily. Separate line i tem for arranging boom lift  may be added , if 
required. 
i) If scaffolding is to be used for height works,  cost of scaffol ding may be 
considered while preparing estimates. 
SYSTEM
QP NO.
REV.
DATE
Pages
Ref : 
SL. NO. METHOD 
OF CHECK INSTRUMENTS CLASS FREQUENCY REF. DOC & 
ACCEPT.NOR MS
FORMAT 
OF 
RECORD
1.0 Review verification B 100% As per PO tech spec and 
Mfr's paint catalogue
Painting 
procedure
2.0
2.1 Visual / 
Verification Visual B 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
2.2 Visual / 
Verification
Skilled / 
Experience 
Certificate
B 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.0
3.2 Visual / 
Verification Visual B 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.3 Verification comparison A 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.4 Physical Records & Doc. 
Review B 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.5 Physical Visual / 
Measurement A Random PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.6 Maintain Visual B 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.7 Physical Visual / 
Measurement B 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.8 Maintain Visual B 100% PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.9 Physical Visual / 
Measurement B Cover 100% 
Areas
PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
3.10 Verification Visual B one location PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
4
4.1 Physical Visual / 
Measurement A Random PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure Site Register
4.2 Physical Visual A Cover 100% 
Areas
PO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure
Report/Site 
register
SR - Site Register
IR - Inspection Reports
C. Minor = Agency Quality Supervisor/Engineer
Note :
Note: Reference and Acceptance norms shall be derived from following in the same sequence-
Painting/Repainting Location should be clearly 
identified and recorded
1) NTPC Approved drawing / data sheet  2) NTPC tech specs  3) Purchase Order  4) Relevant national standard
1) Original Paint Thickness, after Primer, after Intermediate and after final coat, paint thickness should be recorded       
Erecting Scaffolding and Approach to ensure 
thorough surface cleaning, Painting and 
Inspection
Primer Coat Application
5) Relevant International standard  6) Manufacturer's standard  7) Good Engineering practices
Final Inspection 
2) Before every coat/every time specified, environment (Temp/Humidity/Dew Point) as per PO/Paint Mfr's recommendations are to be maintained and recorded
Name
Signature / Date
AGENCY PREPARED & REVIEWED BY APPROVED BY :
Men, Tools & Consumables
Equipment / Instruments / Testing Instrument's 
Calibration Certificate Verification
Skilled Manpower (Painter, Painting Supervisor / 
Engineer etc.) Verification (If Required) Sample 
Painting on Test Specimen for Painter
Detailed paint application procedure by 
agency
INDICATIVE   FQP FOR STEEL PAINTING WORKS
NTPC LIMITED ITEM FQP
STEEL PAINTING WORKS 
STRUCTURES, PIPE LINES, EQUIPMENTS, MAIN PLANT 
AND MISCELLANEOUS AREA
REMARKS
Prior to start of the work, vendor has to 
submit to NTPC for review /approval.
3.1 Visual / 
Verification Site RegisterPO Tech Spec./ NTPC 
approved procedure100%
In Process Inspection 
BVisual
ITEMS / STAGE AND CHARACTERISTICS TO 
BE CHECKED.
Paint Consumption Record To be maintained Area-wise/NTPC EIC 
Instruction 
Ensure application of paint within 
stipulated time schedule (100% by 
execution & random by FQA)
Surface preparation by suitable mechanism like 
power tool cleaning / blast cleaning (removal of 
dust, grease,oil, rust )
At random  by FQA
Maintaining Time Interval between Primer coat  to 
Under coat
MTC - Manufacturer's Test Certificates
Maintaining Time Interval between Under coat  to 
Top coat
Under Coat Application
Identifying with date of completion of final painting 
on the structure / location/equipment
To be maintained Area-wise/NTPC EIC 
Instruction 
 Rust Index Ri4 as per ISO-4628-3, After six 
month(min)/PO warranty period
100% measured by Agency, Random  
Cross-check by EIC.   Random 
witnessed by FQA
Top Coat Application
Final Painting Thickness (After Application of final 
Coat)
100% measured by Agency, Random  
Cross-check by EIC.  Random witnessed 
by FQA
Legend:-
A. Critical = Agency Engineer+Execution + FQA 
B. Major = Agency Engineer+ Execution