 
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC 
BASIS 
1 CEG No. FQA-01 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
 Radiography and other NDT Jobs in Plant 
3 Responsibility Centre CPC 
4 Brief scope of work 1. Radiography:  
2. The scope of work under this head includes among other activities 
deployment of one no. radiography source (duly authorized by 
BARC/AERB) of adequate strength (minimum 08 Curie strength) 
along with adequate manpower and T&P etc. throughout the contract 
period for carrying out radiography at site during normal running, 
preventive, and breakdown maintenance works as and when required. 
3. The vendor should deploy at least four nos. of AERB/BARC certified 
radiographers for execution of work. 
4. Agency’s responsibility will include film exposure, complete 
processing, evaluation by at least ISNT/ASNT certified Level– II 
personnel and submission of report in hard & soft copy at site.  
5. Radiography source pit for safe custody of the source shall be 
provided by NTPC.  
6. Radiography films and chemicals shall be arranged by the contractor 
at their own cost. 
7. Other NDT process:  
8. Tube thickness of boilers tubes is to be surveyed with the help of 
calibrated D – Meters for water wall tubes, super heaters, re heaters, 
LTSH, economizer etc. and other areas of plants whenever & 
wherever required as per instruction of EIC during O/H, breakdown 
etc 
9. Dye penetration test during O/ H, breakdown, preventive 
maintenance and normal running in all areas. 
10. Ultrasonic test during O/H, breakdown, preventive maintenance and 
normal running in all areas  
11. The ultrasonic testing machine of latest model of reputed make, 
accessories, consumables, calibration blocks, and ref erence block for 
steel, white metal and other metals are in the scope of contractor.  
12. The contractor will deploy one level II UT operator for UT 
interpretation and report preparation. 
Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants 
to submit.  
Note: Contractor shall provide 24 Hrs. services as and when required to 
complete the job within stipulated period. 
2.  Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
A. The applicant should have carried out Radiography and Tube 
thickness survey work atleast in one unit of 200 MW or above size 
thermal power plant during last Five years from date of application
for enlistment. 
Note- Above work(s) should be executed in a single or in maximum two 
different work orders 
B. The vendor should have valid authorization from AERB/BARC for 
deploying of radiography source. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support  of 
meetingQR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA 
bill/FinalDeviation Statement, Radiography source Authorization certificate 
and other documents mentioned elsewhere.  
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC 
BASIS 
CEG No. FQA-01 
6 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are required to 
be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment: - 
i . Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during 
previous five years from the date of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the concerned client in 
support of successful execution of work against each of the POs to 
besubmitted. 
i i . Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of 
application.Incase,theauditeddocumentsarenotready/available, then certified 
copy of financial statement by a registered practicing-chartered accountant 
may be submitted. 
i i i . NSIC / SSI / MSME registrationcertificate 
i v . PF and GST/Service Tax registrationcertificate 
v . Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants 
tosubmit. 
7 NOTES: 1.0 Similar work means: Radiography or Tube thickness survey work in atleast one 
unit of 200 MW or above size thermal power plant during last Five years from date 
of application for enlistment 
2.0 Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break- up of composite PO 
value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Executed value of contracts shall include 
escalation amount because of price adjustment, if any, in the contract. 
 