1 | P a g e  
 
 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A Joint Venture of NTPC Ltd. & SAIL) 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
NIT NO.: 0230/SSC/CS/OT/31/2025-26/2800010171    Da ted: 08/10/2025 
NSPCL-Bhilai invites tenders for following package of Power Plant-III, NSPCL--Bhilai: 
Sl. 
No. 
Pkg. No. Description of Work Estimated 
Value (Rs) 
Cost of 
Tender 
Document 
(Rs.) 
Contract 
Period 
Sale Start 
Date / 
Sale Close 
Date 
Last Date 
& Time 
for 
Receipt 
of Bid 
EMD  
01 
SSC/ 
25161 
CONSTRUCTION OF COAL 
STORAGE SHED- PHASE-2 AT 
PP-III NSPCL DURGAPUR. 
6,35,58,836.81 
/- 
5310/- 
(Online 
tender form)  
11 Months 08/10/25 29/10/25 
15:00Hrs 10,00,000/- 26/10/25 
Tender Documents can be downloaded from SRM Portal: https:// sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal after paying 
Tender Fee amount of  Rs. 5310/-.(`` ``4500.00+ `` ``810.00(GST@18%).  
Online Tender fee/EMD submission Procedure help doc ument can be accessed at link - “SRM Online TFE & E MD 
Payment Manual” on SRM Portal website : -   https://www.nspcl.co.in/pages/nspcl-srm-portal . 
Abridged NIT along with Qualifying Requirement may be view ed at https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in , www.ntpctender.com , 
www.ntpc.co.in , www.nspcl.co.in . The details of tender for e-bidding shall be available at  
https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal  (RFx/NIT No.: 2800010171).  
Tender document fee/EMD should be submitted online. Tender Fee and EMD can also be paid offline in the form of 
Demand Draft / Pay Order / Banker's Cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payable at  Bhilai  
and is to be submitted at following address: 
AGM(SSC-C&M), NSPCL Bhilai –Expansion Site, Near Pure na Village, PO-Bhilai (East) Distt. - Durg, C.G. 490021  Tel.: 
0788-2347063.  
Request for Tender Fee Exemption for MSME is not applicable (This is tender for works). Instruction for e-bidding:  
1.  The bidder must have Digital Signature Certificate (Clas s-III). 
2.  The bidders who already have valid SRM User ID:  
a) Login the SRM Portal and click on RFx and Auction but ton. 
b) Rfx will be available to view for all the bidders which are already having valid SRM User ID’s.  
c) Interested bidders have to register first against the  Bid invitation by clicking on “Register” button placed   into R fx 
header segment. 
d) Once Registration step & Tender fee submission is done by b idder and the tender fee received by the NSPCL and 
updated into the system then Bidder could be able to “Create Re sponse” and submit the bids against the Bid invitation   
into the system.  
3.  New Bidders who are not having SAP/ERP Vendor Code and / or  SRM User ID:  
a) In case a new bidder wants to participate for a parti cular Bid invitation in SRM portal, the bidder first of all ha s to 
submit the filled Registration Form & EFT Form along with requir ed supporting documents e.g. as specified in forms, 
till 24/10/2025  to C&M department, NSPCL Bhilai in hard copy or scanned cop y through e-mail at 
ajay.kumar@nspcl.co.in  or ushakumai@nspcl.co.in ) C&M department will initiate the process for vendor ID  creation in 
SAP & send the bidder’s SRM Credentials (User ID along with initial Password) to them. 
c) After creation of SRM Credentials the step 2 (above) shal l be followed by the bidder.  
All Corrigendum/Modifications/Updates for the above  NITs shall only be published on the aforesaid web sites.  
For any Technical Support, please contact SRM helpdesk at 0788-2282414. 
                                                                                ************************ 
 
 
 
2 | P a g e  
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work: Construction of Coal Storage Shed- Phase-2 at PP-III NSPCL Durgapur 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1 The bidder should have executed “Similar Works” wit hin the preceding seven (07) years as on 
date of Techno Commercial Bid opening in any of the following manner: - 
 
a) 01 (One) order having contract value not less than Rs. 508.47 lakhs. 
OR 
b) 02 (Two) orders having contract value not less than Rs. 317.80 lakhs each. 
OR 
c) 03 (Three) orders having contract value not less than Rs. 254.24 lakhs each. 
 
1.2 Similar Works Meaning: The bidder should have executed Steel Structural works including 
Reinforced Cement Concrete works. 
 
For clause no. 1.1 as above: 
• The word "executed" means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria including value as 
mentioned in clause 1.1 above within the period of preceding seven (07) years as on date of techno 
commercial bid opening even if the contract has bee n started earlier and /or is not completed / 
closed. 
 
• The reference works executed by the bidder's grou p company / subsidiary company shall not be 
considered for meeting the qualifying requirements by the bidder. 
 
• Reference work executed by a bidder as a sub-cont ractor may also be considered provided the 
certificate issued by a main contractor is duly cer tified by Project Authority specifying the scope 
and value of work executed by the subcontractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
 
• Necessary documentary evidence including client c ertificate in support of execution of the work 
to be submitted along with Techno-Commercial bid. 
 
• For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount without tax only shall be 
considered, in case contract is inclusive of taxes,  bidder should provide the breakup of basic value 
and taxes. 
 
• Reference works executed by the applicant as a member of joint Venture /Consortium / Associate 
can also be considered provided: a) The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the 
joint Ventures / consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture agreement / 
consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking an d the applicant's scope of work and break-up 
of quantities executed by them as individual contri bution in the joint Venture / Consortium 
/Associate, duly authenticated by the Project Autho rity/Owner meet the relevant provisions of 
eligibility criteria. b) In case the reference work has been executed by the applicant in an integrated 
joint venture wherein allocation of scope of work and breakup of quantities between the partners is 
not clearly specified in the integrated 
joint venture Agreement, then for establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria mentioned 
above, the credit of executed quantities can be cla imed by the applicant in the ratio of applicant's 
share in the integrated joint Venture Agreement, provided the applicant establishes that it regularly 
undertakes works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture 
shall be duly authenticated by the Project Authorit y/owner. c) Experience in JV/consortium with 
equity participation less than 10% shall not be considered. 
 
 
 
3 | P a g e  
 
 
2.0 Financial Criteria  
2.1 
The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder, s hould not be less than Rs. 693.37 Lakhs 
(Indian Rupee Six Hundred Ninety-Three Lakhs and Th irty-Seven Thousand Only) during the 
preceding three (03) completed financial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
2.2 The Net worth should not be less than 100% of the Bidde r’s paid up share capital as on the last 
day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth based on 
the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Companies 
wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidders and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company, 
and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than100% 
of their total paid up share capital. However, indi vidually, their Net worth should not be less than 
75% of respective paid up share capitals. For Consortiums/Joint Ventures, wherever applicable, the 
Net worth of all consortium/Joint Venture members i n combined manner should not be less than 
100% of their paid up share capital. However indivi dually their Net worth should not be less than 
75% of their respective paid up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined)=(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2 X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid 
up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
 
2.3 In case, a bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at clause 2.1 above on its own, 
its holding company would be required to meet the s tipulated turnover requirements at clause 
6.2.1 above, provided that the net worth of such ho lding company as on the last day of preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than th e paid-up share capital of the holding company. In 
such an event, the bidder would be required to furn ish along with its bid, a Letter of Undertaking 
from its holding company, supported by Board Resolu tion, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable f inancial support for the execution of the 
contract by the bidder in case of award.  
 
2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audit ed financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the un-audited unconsolidated financial stat ements of the bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the bidder furnishes the follow ing further documents on substantiation of its 
qualification 
 
1. Copies of the un-audited unconsolidated financial s tatements of the Bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
2. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Compa ny, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the un-audited unco nsolidated financial statements form part of 
the Consolidated Annual report of the company. 
 
2.5 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results ce rtified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall 
be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not ab le to submit the certificate from practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial param eters, the audited results for the three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last fina ncial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under 
audit as on the date of Techno commercial bid openi ng and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
4 | P a g e  
 
 
 Note  
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves mean 
all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves 
credited out of the revaluation of the assets, writ e back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit a nd Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to 
the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
2. Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
3. The figures indicated in 2.1 are exclusive of Taxes and Duties. If required, certificate in support of 
taxes and duties to be provided from Chartered Accountant. 
4. “Holding Company " and “ Subsidiary Company ” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
NIT Conditions  
 
1. Bid documents will be issued to all the parties on their request (cost of tender document to 
be made by a crossed demand draft / pay order / banker's chequ e in favour of NTPC 
SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payable at Bhilai ) for issue of bid documents without 
prima-facie examination of their qualification stat us. However, issue of bid documents shall 
not mean that bidders are considered qualified. Ten der document fee will not be refunded. 
Request for tender documents received after the last date as mentioned above due to delays 
postal/courier services shall not be entertained. 
 
2. NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such  case no bidder / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
3. Agencies are advised to visit the site to familiari ze themselves with the nature of work and 
the site conditions. 
 
4. If the last date of receiving application and date of bid opening coincide with a holiday, the 
date will be shifted to the next working day. 
 
5.  The subject work being works contracts, benefits un der public procurement policy 
for MSEs shall not be extended against this tender . 
 
1.0 Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audit ed Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Insti tute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which  
Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifyi ng Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document 
Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with  the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute o f 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
2.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer  reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ hi s collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group 
companies to perform the contract, should the circu mstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be limited to t he 
assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ ban ker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of credent ials. A 
negative determination of such assessment of creden tials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection  of 
the bid.  
 
3.0 The reference works whose details have been declare d in their bid shall only be considered to ascertai n 
the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying  Requirement (QR). The Employer at its discretion 
may seek any clarification and/or documentary evide nce only for the reference works as mentioned 
5 | P a g e  
 
above. However, no change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant for conforming 
to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”. 
 
“Bidders are required to furnish the details of the past experience like authentic Work Orders/Purchase 
Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, client certificates, completion certificate, etc. in supp ort 
of meeting the Qualifying Requirements based on whi ch selection is to be made as per format. 
However, if any of the Work Orders/Purchase Orders/ Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements pertains 
to the work executed by Bidder for NSPCL in the pas t, then in respect of such Work Orders/Purchase 
Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, Bidder  shall not be required to enclose Client 
Certificate along with its Bid.” 
 
 
    i) All the  bidders are required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all t he 
documents, in support of Technical Qualification Re quirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ 
Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificat es etc.), duly certified and verified for authentic ity 
from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company  or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency 
(TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from boo ks of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Bidders can also submit a certificate is sued by their Independent Statutory Auditor 
certifying the data required for meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
 ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly c ertified and verified documents from their Statutor y 
Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Te chnical QR along with a certificate regarding 
verification of authenticity of documents as per th e format placed at Annexure-II (Appendix-1 to 
Attachment-3 - Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ or Annexure-III (Appendix-2 to Attachment-3 - 
Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted  by the bidder in support of meeting Technical 
QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
 
       iii) In case documents are certified & verif ied for authenticity through TPIA, the verification  and 
certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIAs:  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18) TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not certified 
by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidde r, as per the format enclosed with the bidding 
documents, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be 
liable for rejection. 
 
6 | P a g e  
 
    iv) The Bidder shall be responsible to get thei r documents/ credentials in support of Qualifying 
Requirements verified & certified by their Statutor y Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs  
pertaining to third party verification and certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be borne 
by the Bidder. Employer shall have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall no t be 
liable for any claim/ dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor. 
 
 
4.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), O rder 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ 
revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids.  
 
5.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land bord er with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender o nly if bidder is registered with the Competent Auth ority 
as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Gove rnment of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
6.0 NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT wi thout 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no  bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim 
arising out of such action. 
 
7.0 The bidding document is available online. A complet e set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by 
any interested Bidder from the GeM  Portal (https://gem.gov.in). The Bidder would be r equired to register 
on the website.  
First time users are required to register themselve s on GeM Portal only. First time users not allotted  any 
vendor code by NSPCL, should send a copy of the reg istration details to the e-mail address specified i n 
this NIT under Address for Communication with follo wing details at least three working days prior to 
Technical Opening Date: 
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card,  
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by b ank  
Note:  No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
8.0 Address for communication: 
 
AGM  (SSC-C&M) 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED,  
Post Office: BHILAI (East), Distt. : Durg (CHHATTISGARH), Pin: 490 021 
 : 0788–2282446, 2347063 
Email:   ajay.kumar@nspcl.co.in 
 
 
9.0 Registered Office: 
NSPCL,, 4 TH  Floor, NBCC Tower,  
15, Bhikaji Cama Place,  
New Delhi 
7 | P a g e  
 
 
Other terms and conditions will be intimated in tender documents. 
 
 