NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
   UPGRADATION OF LAN AT NTPC LARA 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Date: .10.2025
GePNIC ID:2025_NTPC_     _1
A. NTPC Limited invites on-line bids  o n  Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e.,
Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders
for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.
B. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK
Upgradation of LAN at NTPC Lara.
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents.
C. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through External Commercial
Borrowings/Domestic Borrowings/Own Resources.
D.  Detailed specification, scope of  work and terms & conditions ar e given in the Bidding
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal  o f  N I C  a t
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:
Bidding Document No 9900310586 
Location of work/Plant Lara Super Thermal Power Project, 
Village - Chhapora, 
PO/PS – Pussore,  
Raigarh-496440, Chhattisgarh. 
Cost of Bidding Document/Tender Fees Not Applicable 
Documents Download Date and Time From .10.2025 onwards
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders(if any) 20.10.2025  
Pre Bid Conference Date Not Applicable 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
Up to 1500 HRS (IST) on .11.2025 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I (Techno-
Commercial bid) 
.11.2025  at 1500 HRS (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II (Price bid) Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  o f  N T P C  f o r  
updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC 
portal of NTPC. 
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 2,00,000/- (Indian
Rupees Two Lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY 
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is in vited under e-tendering
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/.
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is m andatory for e-tendering
activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also  has the user manuals
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.
  Acceptable Tender Fee payment proof shall be uploaded by all the bidder in the 
 “Fee Cover” at the GePNIC Portal.  
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I. 
H. Only 'Class-I local suppliers’/'Class-I & Class-II local supp liers’ are eligible to
participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of
bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids.
Minimum Local Content for class -I local supplier = 60%
Minimum Local Content Class -II local supplier = 20%.
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, wi ll be eligible to bid only if
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentio ned in the Bidding
Documents.
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects.
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
M.  Address for Communication/Correspondence: 
 
DGM (CS) / AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: 0120 4946581, 4946535 
E-mail:kailashkumawat@ntpc.co.in/shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Websites : https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
               Appendix-I to IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirements for Upgradation of LAN at NTPC LARA 
 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 The bidder should have executed ‘Supply with installation/ commissioning of Wi-Fi 
network/ Campus Wide Network / LAN Work (s) or combination of any within preceding 
seven (07) years prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening, meeting the following 
criteria:   
 
a) At least one work, having minimum total cost of 160 Lakhs   
OR 
b) At least two works, each having minimum total cost of 100 Lakhs   
OR 
c) At least three works, each having minimum total cost of 80 Lakhs   
 
 
Notes for 1.1: 
1.The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the   
   criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not  
    completed/closed. 
2.In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed pri or to the date of  
  Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered  
   acceptable. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may a lso be  
    considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor i s duly certified by  
    owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of  
    qualifying requirements. 
4.In case, bidder has executed reference work under two orders one for supply and one  
  for services separately for the same installation, both the orders shall be considered as a  
   single order for the purpose of evaluation. 
5. While calculating executed value of PO, only basic value will be considered. Taxes and  
   duties will be excluded. 
 
1.2  Financial Criteria: 
1.2.1  The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be less th an Rupees 
     2 Crore only during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on the  
    date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
1.2.2 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial  statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited un consolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification. 
x Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of  the bidder along with 
copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
x A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolid ated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the c ompany. 
 
1.2.3 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial  year as on the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit 
the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying it s financial parameters,  t h e  
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the las t financial year shall 
be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a  Certificate would  b e  
required f r o m  t h e  C E O / C F O  a s  p e r  t h e  format enclosed in the bidding documents stating 
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the  d a t e  o f  Techno-
Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered A ccountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 1.2:  
 
1.Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2.“Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
 
 