Page 1 of 7 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A G
OVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
SHA
RED SERVICES CENTRE – CMHQ-RANCHI 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT. 
NOT
ICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
FOR 
P
ACKAGE: Execution of Acoustics & other Internal Finishing Works of 
Auditorium of NTPC Pakri Barwadih Sikri Township 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Mode of Tendering: Open Tender with QR on GePNIC Portal 
 NIT / Bidding Document No. – SSC-C&M-PBCMP-400053329                       Date: 10.10.2025 
I. N
TPC invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-I:
Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from Eligible Bidders on Open
tender & Domestic Competitive Bidding basis for afore-mentioned package as per
Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.
II
. Brief Scope of Work:
Execution of Acoustics & other Internal Finishing Works of Auditorium of NTPC Pakri
Barwadih Sikri Township.
The s
cope of the work shall be on the basis of single point responsibility, completely
covering the activities and services in respect of all the scope as covered under the
specifications and BOQ and read in conjunction with Tender Drawings/Schematics.
Detai
led Scope shall be as per Technical Specification / Terms of Reference.
II
I. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Own Resources.
IV. D
etailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the
bidding document, which are available on-line at NTPC e-procurement portal (Gepnic
portal): https://eprocurentpc.nic.in as per the following schedule:
Tender Reference No. 
Refer NTPC e -procurement 
portal (Gepnic portal): 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
Date of issue of NIT 
Downloading of Bidding Document 
Pre-Bid Conference date 
Last date for receipt of queries on Bidding 
Documents from Bidders (No Queries from 
Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of 
Queries) 
Last date & Time for submission of online bids 
Date and Time for opening of Techno-
Commercial bids 
Opening of Price Bids 
Page 2 of 7 
Bid Security (EMD)- Exemption not allowed. INR 10 Lakh 
Bid Security (EMD) submission mode Online/ Offline 
Estimated Cost of Work Rs 5,85,14,241.70 
(excluding GST) 
Pre-Bid Conference Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
Minimum Percentage towards compliance of 
safety aspect  
2% of the cumulative total of 
Service Portion of the 
Contract. 
Contract Price Adjustment As per SCC clause 6 
Evaluation criteria Package wise Evaluation 
Splitting of Quantity Not Applicable 
Note: :Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) for updated bidding schedule of the Tender . For any 
corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
V. Q
ualifying Requirements for Bidders:
Q
ualifying Requirements is enclosed at Annexure- I to NIT
VI
. Being a works contract, EMD exemption shall not be allowed for the subject
work. It may be noted that due to system constraint in GePNIC portal against
attribute “EMD through BG/ST or EMD Exemption Allowed” mentioned as YES
for facilitating to the bidder for providing Bank Guarantee towards EMD and
bidders are requested, not to upload EMD exemption document.
The Bid Security shall, at the Bidder's option, be in the form of e-BG, Electronic Fund
Transfer (EFT)/ irrevocable Letter of Credit or a bank guarantee from any of the
banks specified in the Bid Data Sheets or an Insurance Surety Bond from an Insurer
as per guidelines issued by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of
India (IRDAI), on the NTPC e-tender portal on or before bid submission closing date
and time, failing which, their online bid shall be rejected by the Employer as being
non-responsive.
"
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER
AS BEING NON- RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE
BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG
/THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUN D
T
RANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -
PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR
I
N THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.”
V
II. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the
subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no
bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.
V
III. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may
be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be required to register on the website.
The tender is invited under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves
on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate
(DSC) Class -3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders
should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e-
Page 3 of 7  
tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class -3 key from agencies 
authorized by Govt. of India. The e- Tender Portal also has the user manuals with 
detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted 
ONLY at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
IX. Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is 
considered to be qualified.  
 
X. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ 
group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
 
XI. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
XII. Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may 
apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
XIII. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with  an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply  to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
XIV. Address for Communication/Location of Bid opening  
 
Manager(C&M)/ DGM (C&M)  
NTPC Limited SSC – Coal Mining, NML,  
Ram Keshi Heights, Plot No. 123,   
Old A.G. Colony, Kadru,   
Distt : Ranchi -834002 
Mob.: 9861136329 / 9650992083 
E-mail: monalishaparida@ntpc.co.in / dheerendramishra@ntpc.co.in 
 
XV. Registered Office: 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area,  
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI00796 
 
XVI. User/Indenter Detail:   
  
Page 4 of 7  
 At NTPC, Pakri Barwadih Sikri :   
  
Sh. Subhasis Bhaumik,  
                DGM (Civil. Const.),  
Mob: 9435720497  
Email: subhasisbhaumik@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
  
Page 5 of 7  
Annexure- I to NIT 
 
Qualifying Requirements 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated here under: 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 The bidder should have executed Fixed ‘Interior / Acoustic’ work of composite nature 
involving Interiors including Supply, Installation, testing and commissioning of Audio-
Visual system with associated electrical works for Auditorium Theatre/Cinema 
Hall/Multiplex/Planetarium/ institution/commercial office /Nonresidential building in 
each contract within preceding seven (07) years reckoned as on the date of Techno 
commercial Bid opening . The cumulative executed value shall not be less than Rs 
468 Lakhs in maximum Three (3) above referred Contracts.  
 
1.2 The bidder should have executed  "Audio Visual System" of 
Auditorium/Theatre/Cinema Hall/Multiplex/Planetarium/ institution/commercial office 
/Nonresidential building comprising of following essential components  in each 
contract within preceding seven (07) years reckoned as on the date of Techno 
commercial Bid opening: 
 
(a) Video Projection System  
 
   (b) Sound Reinforcement system  
 
 
The cumulative executed value shall not be less than Rs 92 Lakhs in maximum Three 
(3) above referred Contracts.  
 
 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0 above:  
 
1. The reference works of clause  1.1 and 1.2 above, could be executed in same or 
different contracts.  
2. For clause  1.0 above, the reference works executed by the bidder's group 
company/subsidiary company shall not be considered for its qualification. 
3. For clause 1.1 above, Cost of fire fighting System if forms part of the reference work, 
the same shall also be considered for arriving at the cost of the work. 
 
4. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved 
the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
5.  In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered 
acceptable.  
6. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying 
the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements.  
Page 6 of 7  
7. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be 
considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break – up 
of basic value and taxes.  
 
2.0  Financial Criteria:  
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, shall not be less than Rs. 585 Lakhs 
(Rupees Five Hundred Eighty Five Lakhs only). 
  
2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 2.1 above 
on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements at Cl. No. 2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more 
than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder 
would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional 
& irrevocable financial support for the execution of the contract by the bidder in case of 
award.  
 
2.3 Net worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid-up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial year reckoned from the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening. In case the Bidder does not meet the Net wor th 
criteria on its own, it can meet the requirements of Net worth based on the strength of 
its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding 
Companies, wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder 
and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding 
Companies, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their 
respective paid-up share capitals.  
 
  Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
  Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100  
 
  Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
(Seventy five percentage) of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 
are individual paid up share capitals.  
 
2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification:  
 
  • Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.  
 
  • A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of 
the Holding Company.  
 
Page 7 of 7  
2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to 
submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results of the company are 
under audit as on the date of Techno- commercial bid opening and the certificate 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial parameters is not 
available.  
 
Notes for Clause 2.0 above:  
 
1.0 Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2.0  Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
  
3.0 “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed 
to them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
 
 
 