 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 1 of 138 
 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED 
(A Wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited, A Maharatna Organization, under 
Ministry of Power, Government of India) 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector -24, Noida – 201301 (U.P.) 
 
 
 
Request for Selection (RfS) Document 
For 
 
Procurement under Tariff-Based Global Competitive Bidding Request for Selection 
(RFS) document for setting up of 250 MW/500 MWh STU connected standalone Battery 
Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the state of Kerala for Kerala State Electricity 
Board (KSEBL)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with Viability Gap Funding (VGF) supported through Power 
System Development Fund (PSDF) 
 
 
 
RFS DOCUMENT NO.:  NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26

 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 2 of 138 
 
DISCLAIMER 
 
1. Though adequate care has been taken while preparing the RfS document, the bidder(s) 
shall satisfy themselves that the document is complete in all respect. Intimation regarding 
any discrepancy shall be given by the prospective bidders to the office of NTPC Vidyut 
Vyapar Nigam Limited (NVVN)  immediately. If no intimation is received from any bidder 
prior to the last date for seeking the clarification , it shall be considered that the document 
is complete in all respect and has been received/ acknowledged by the bidder(s). 
2. NVVN reserves the right to modify, amend or supplement this document. 
3. This RfS document has been prepared in good faith, and on best endeavor basis. Neither 
NVVN nor their employees or advisors make any representation or warranty, express or 
implied, or accept any responsibility or liability, whatsoever, in respect of any statements 
or omissions herein, or the accuracy, completeness or reliability of information, and shall 
incur no liability under any law, statute, rules or regulations as to the accuracy, reliability 
or completeness of this document, even if any loss or damage is caused by any act or 
omission on their part. 
4. This RfS is not an agreement and is neither an offer nor invitation to the prospective bidders 
or any other person. The purpose of this RfS is to set the terms for the selection process 
and to provide Bidders with information that may be useful to them in preparation and 
submission of their Bids. 
5. The bidder shall bear all its costs associated with or relating to the preparation and 
submission of its bid, including but not limited to preparation, copying, postage, delivery 
fees or any other costs incurred in connection with or relating to its bid. All such costs and 
expenses will remain with the bidder and the authority shall not be liable in any manner 
whatsoever for the same or for any other costs or other expenses incurred by a bidder in 
preparation of submission of the bid, regardless of the conduct or the outcome of the 
bidding process. 
6. In case of any discrepancy in the Bidding documents uploaded on the websites of NVVN, 
Bharat ETS e -bidding portal (The link for same is https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com), the documents uploaded on the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com website will prevail. 
 
 
 
 
Place: Noida Date: 11.10.2025 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 3 of 138 
 
BID INFORMATION SHEET 
The brief details of the RfS are as under: 
 
 
 
 
(A) 
 
NAME OF WORK/ 
BRIEF SCOPE OF 
WORK/ JOB 
1. Selection of Battery Energy Storage System Developers 
for Setting up of 500 MWh ( 250 MW x 2 hrs) 
Standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems in Kerala 
for “on Demand” usage under Tariff-based Competitive 
Bidding 
2. The Projects will be set up under “BOO” model. 
(B) RfS NO. & DATE NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Dated 11/10/2025 
(C) TYPE OF BIDDING 
SYSTEM 
 
Single Stage Bidding with Two Envelopes 
 
 
(D) 
 
 
TYPE OF RfS/ 
TENDER 
 
 
 
 
(E) COMPLETION/ 
CONTRACT PERIOD 
As mentioned in RfS Document 
 
 
 
 
 
(F) 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT FEE/ 
COST OF RfS 
DOCUMENT 
(NON-REFUNDABLE) 
 
 
 
 
Amount: INR 22,500/ - (Indian Rupees Twenty -Two 
Thousand Five Hundred Only) including GST shall be 
submitted through NEFT/ RTGS transfer in the account of 
the NVVN. 
 
 
 
 
(G) 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT 
PROCESSING FEE 
 
 
 
 
Rs. 13.50 Lakh + 18% GST for total Project capacity quoted 
by bidder, shall be submitted through NEFT/RTGS transfer 
in the account of the NVVN. 
 
E-TENDER Yes 
MANUAL  
 
 
APPLICABLE Yes 
NOT APPLICABLE  
 
 
APPLICABLE Yes 
NOT APPLICABLE  
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 4 of 138 
 
 
 
 
 
(H) 
 
 
 
EARNEST MONEY 
DEPOSIT (EMD) 
 
 
 
 
Amount: INR 4,80,000/MW (Rupees Four Lakh Eighty 
Thousand only per MW) per Project shall be submitted in 
the form of Bank Guarantee.  
 
(I) 
 
PERFORMANCE 
BANK GUARANTEE 
Bidders selected by NVVN/ KSEBL based on this RfS shall 
submit Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG) for a value @ 
INR 12,00,000/MW (Rupees Twelve Lakh only per MW)  
to KSEBL, prior to signing of BESPA with KSEBL as per 
terms of RfS. 
 
 
(J) 
DATE, TIME & VENUE 
OF PRE-BID 
MEETING 
 
As per date & time mentioned on ETS portal. Bidders shall 
submit their queries on or before to NVVN through email. 
(K) 
OFFLINE & ONLINE 
BID-SUBMISSION 
DEADLINE 
Applicable as per NIT on Bharat-ETS portal 
(L) 
TECHNO- 
COMMERCIAL BID 
OPENING 
As per NIT on Bharat-ETS portal 
(M) e-Reverse Auction (e- 
RA) 
Will be informed to eligible bidders. 
Date and time of e-RA shall be intimated through email. 
 
(N) 
CONTACT DETAILS 
OF (insert details of 
the e-bidding portal) 
mailto: Bharat-ETS portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com 
 
 
(O) 
Name, Designation, 
Address and other 
details 
(For Submission of 
Response to RfS) 
Kushank Kumar, Sr. Manager(C&M) 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED 
Ph No. 0120-4947239 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector -24, Noida – 201301 (U.P.) 
 
(P) 
Details of persons to 
be contacted in case 
of any assistance 
required 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED 
(A Wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited) 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector -24, Noida – 201301 (U.P.) 
 
1. Bidders are required to quote strictly as per terms and conditions of the RfS documents 
and not to stipulate any deviations/ exceptions. 
2. Any bidder, who meets the Qualifying Requirement and wishes to quote against this 
 
APPLICABLE 
 
Yes 
 
NOT APPLICABLE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 5 of 138 
 
RfS, may download the complete RfS document along with its amendment(s) and 
clarifications if any, from Bharat ETS e -bidding portal and/or NVVN website 
(www.nvvn.co.in) and submit their Bid complete in all respect as per terms & 
conditions of RfS Document on or before the due date of bid submission. 
3. Clarification(s)/ Corrigendum(s) if any shall also be available on the above referred 
websites. 
Bidders are requested to remain updated for any notices/ amendments/  
clarifications etc. to the RfS document through the websites https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com and www.nvvn.co.in. No separate notifications will be issued  
for such notices/ amendments/ clarifications etc. in the print media or individually. 
Intimation regarding notification on the above shall be updated on www.nvvn.co.in 
and the details only will be available from https://www.bharat-electronictender.com. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 6 of 138 
 
SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION & INVITATION FOR BIDS 
1 Background & Introduction 
1.1 NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “NVVN”), a wholly 
Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited (Govt of India Enterprises), has been incorporated 
with the objective of, inter alia, carrying on the business of trading in electricity by 
purchasing all forms of electrical power from generating companies, captive generating 
plants (CGPs), distribution licensees, State Electricity Boards etc., and sell such 
electrical power thereof to SEBs, distribution companies / licensees and bulk power 
consumers etc. in India and abroad. Kerala has been allocated 500 MWh of BESS 
Capacity under by Ministry of Power, GoI under  the Viability Gap Funding (VGF) 
scheme supported through Power System Development Fund (PSDF) for 
Development of Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS). NVVN has been appointed 
by Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEBL) as Authorised Representative for 
conducting Bid Process on behalf of KSEBL. 
1.2 With various global developments in technology and manufacturing, Renewable 
Energy (RE) has become the most affordable and cheapest source for meeting energy 
requirements. India has been expanding its installed RE capacity with the aim of 
reaching 500 GW by 2030. RE from sources like solar and wind is variable and not 
available round the clock like thermal power to meet the demand. Energy Storage 
Systems (ESS) are necessary to address this challenge by storing excess energy when 
not needed and supplying it during peak demand periods. As reliance on RE increases, 
the grid experiences stress during evening and morning peaks when sufficient RE is 
not available, necessitating additional power dispatch. ESS plays a vital role in 
successfully integrating RE into the grid and assisting grid operators in managing these 
fluctuations in demand and RE supply. ESS connected to solar pooling stations also 
help in maximizing the capacity utilization of RE transmission systems. 
1.3 The above aspects rightly point out to the next course of direction of India’s energy 
planning methodology -integrating Energy Storage Systems (ESS) with existing and 
upcoming RE capacity in order to optimize generation mix while also better utilizing the 
transmission infrastructure in the country. With respect to increasing the storage 
component in the energy mix, CEA’s Report on identification of usage of storage as 
business case and for ancillary services, identifies Pumped Hydro Storage System 
(PSP) and Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) as the commercially deployed 
solutions for providing requisite storage capacity. CEA’s Report on Optimal generation 
capacity mix for the year 2029 -30 (Version 2.0), released in April, 2023, envisages a 
total installed Battery Energy Storage capacity of 41,650 MW/208,250 MWh as part of 
the installed capacity in 2029 -30. This will be in addition to 18,986 MW of Pumped 
Hydro Storage System envisaged to be a component of the installed capacity in 2029- 
30. 
1.4 Going forward, the planning process for transition to a greener energy mix in the country 
would entail integrating the planned Renewable capacity into India’s energy grid while 
ensuring its safety and reliability. Apart from Pumped Hydro Storage Plants, BESS are 
envisaged to be significant element of the future grid with increased share of renewable 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 7 of 138 
 
energy in accordance with the target of 500 GW of non -fossil-based capacity to be 
installed by 2030. BESS assets can provide the required flexibility in generation apart 
from ensuring the resource adequacy. Besides, Energy Storage Systems also have the 
potential to enable better utilization of the country’s transmission network and reducing 
network infrastructure footprint. 
1.5 Guidelines for Implementation of the RfS 
This RfS document has been prepared based on the Guidelines for “Procurement and 
Utilization of Battery Energy Storage Systems as part of Generation, Transmission and 
Distribution assets, along with Ancillary Services”, issued by Ministry of Power vide 
Gazette Notification dated 10.03.2022 and subsequent amendments and clarifications 
issued thereto until the bid submission deadline for this RfS and Viability Gap Funding 
scheme for development of Battery  Energy Storage Systems supported through Power 
System Development Fund (PSDF) dated 09th June 2025 and subsequent clarifications and 
amendments issued by Ministry of Power . NVVN has issued this RfS in the capacity of 
“Authorised Representative” (hereinafter referred to as the Authorised Representative, 
or NVVN) of the Procurer  i.e. Kerala State Electricity Board  (KSEBL) as defined in 
the aforementioned Guidelines/ amendments/ clarifications. 
 
1.6 Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEBL) (hereinafter referred to as the Procurer, or end 
procurer or Buying Entity  or KSEBL) seeks to utilize energy storage systems,  on an 
“On-Demand” basis, suited to the requirements of KSEBL during the peak and off-peak 
hours. In view of the above, the NVVN hereby invites proposals for setting up of STU-
connected Projects of Standalone Battery Energy  Storage Systems (BESS), for an 
aggregate storage capacity of 500 MWh (250 MW x 2 hrs) with single cycle 
charging/discharging operation, with provision for occasional dual cycle per day with 
annual limit as 400 Cycles of BESS with project to be located in the State of Kerala 
connected with State Transmission Utility. 
Kerala State Electricity Board  (Referred also as “ End Procurer or Buying Entity  or 
KSEBL”) shall enter into a Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) 
with the successful Bidders selected based on this RfS, for availing the Energy 
Storage facility as per the terms, conditions and provisions of the RfS and BESPA. It is 
clarified that the charging power shall be provided by the Buying Entity/ KSEBL. 
Being lowest bidder does not entail the bidders to be eligible for issuance of LOAs. 
LOAs shall be issued for a cumulative capacity upto 500MWh  subject to acceptance 
of the discovered rates in this RfS  by KSEBL. The decision of KSEBL in this regard 
shall be final and binding on the bidders. 
1.7 Battery Energy Storage System Developers (hereinafter referred to as BESSDs) 
selected by NVVN based on this RfS, shall set up the BESS on Build Own Operate 
(BOO) basis in accordance with the provisions of this RfS document and standard 
BESPA. BESPA formats shall be available for download from the (https://www.bharat- 
electronictender.com) 
1.8 Energy Storage facility shall be procured by the KSEBL from the above tender. 
KSEBL shall be the End Procurer  for using the energy storage facility and charging/ 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 8 of 138 
 
discharging the BESS in line with respective agreements with the BESSD and KSEBL, 
based on due performance by the concerned parties. For this tranche, 100% of the 
awarded capacity shall be off taken by KSEBL. 
1.9 The Bidders will be free to avail fiscal incentives like Accelerated Depreciation, 
Concessional Customs and Excise Duties, Tax Holidays etc. available if any for such 
Projects. The same will not have any bearing on comparison of bids for selection. As 
equal opportunity is being provided to all Bidders at the time of tendering itself, it is up 
to the Bidders to avail various tax and other benefits. No claim shall arise on NVVN/ 
KSEBL for any liability if Bidders are not able to avail fiscal incentives and this will not 
have any bearing on the applicable tariff. NVVN shall not bear responsibility for any 
availability or non -availability of fiscal incentive and submission of the bid by the 
Bidder shall be independent of such availability or non-availability as the case may be 
of the fiscal incentives. 
1.10 Already commissioned projects cannot be considered under this RfS. Projects under 
construction or projects which are not yet commissioned will, however, be considered, 
in case these projects are not already accepted under any other Central or State 
Schemes. Enhancement and augmentation of already commissioned Projects, 
irrespective of their capacities will not be considered as eligible Project under this 
scheme. The battery capacity being installed under this tender cannot be used by the 
developer as part of the installed Project capacity demonstrated under any other tender 
concluded by any Central or State Agency as on the last date of bid submission of this 
RfS. 
1.11 Viability Gap Funding 
BESSD selected under this RfS shall be eligible for grant of Central Financial 
Assistance in the form of Viability Gap Funding (VGF), to be released as per the 
provisions contained in this RfS. The VGF support has been earmarked for a 
cumulative BESS capacity of 500 MWh (allocated capacity to Kerala). 
2 Invitation for Bids 
2.1 A Single Stage, Two-Envelope competitive Bidding Procedure will be adopted and will 
proceed as detailed in this document. The respective rights of the Buying Entity/ 
KSEBL and the Bidder/BESSD shall be governed by the RfS Documents/Agreements 
signed between the KSEBL and the BESSD. 
2.2 Interested bidders have to necessarily register themselves on the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com (“ETS portal”) through M/s Electronic Tender.com (India) Pvt. 
Limited to participate in the bidding under this invitation for bids. It shall be the sole 
responsibility of the interested Bidders to get themselves registered at the aforesaid 
portal for which they are required to contact Bharat ETS e -bidding portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com to complete the registration formalities. 
They may obtain further information regarding this RfS from the registered office of 
NVVN at the address given on the Bid Information Sheet from 10:00 hours to 17:00 
hours on all working days. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 9 of 138 
 
For proper uploading of the bids on the Bharat ETS e-bidding portal, it shall be the sole 
responsibility of the Bidders to apprise themselves adequately regarding all the relevant 
procedures and provisions as detailed in the portal as well as by contacting Bharat ETS 
e-bidding portal directly, as and when required, for which contact details are also 
mentioned on the Bid Information Sheet. NVVN in no case shall be responsible for 
any issues related to timely or properly uploading/ submission of the bid in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the Bidding Documents. 
2.3 Bidders should submit their bid proposal complete in all aspect on or before last date 
and time of Bid Submission as mentioned on the Bharat ETS e -bidding portal, the 
NVVN website (www.nvvn.co.in) indicated in the Bid Information Sheet. 
2.4 Bidder shall submit bid proposal along with non -refundable RfS Document Fees and 
Bid Processing Fees and Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) complete in all respect as per 
the Bid Information Sheet. Bid proposals received without the stipulated RfS Document 
Fees, Bid Processing Fees and EMD, will be rejected. In the event of any date 
indicated being declared a holiday, the next working day shall become operative for 
the respective purpose mentioned herein. 
2.5 RfS documents which include Eligibility Criteria, Technical Specifications, various 
Conditions of Contract, Formats etc. can be downloaded from Bharat ETS e -bidding 
portal or from NVVN’s website. It is mandatory to download official copy of the RfS 
Document from Bharat ETS e-bidding portal (https://www.bharat-electronictender.com) 
to participate in the Tender. Any amendment(s)/corrigendum(s)/clarification(s) with 
respect to this RfS shall be uploaded on Bharat ETS e -bidding portal 
(https://www.bharat-electronictender.com). The Bidder should regularly check for any 
Amendment(s)/Corrigendum(s)/Clarification(s) on the above mentioned 
(https://www.bharat-electronictender.com) website. The same may also be uploaded 
on the NVVN’s website. However, in case of any discrepancy, the information 
available on https://www.bharat-electronictender.com) website shall prevail. 
2.6 NVVN shall conduct e-Reverse Auction (e-RA) as per provisions of RfS documents. 
2.7 NVVN reserves the right to cancel/ withdraw/ defer this invitation for bids without 
assigning any reason and shall bear no liability whatsoever consequent upon such a 
decision. 
2.8 Interpretations 
a. Words comprising the singular shall include the plural & vice versa. 
b. An applicable law shall be construed as reference to such applicable law including 
its amendments or re-enactments from time to time. 
c. A time of day shall save as otherwise provided in any agreement or document be 
construed as a reference to Indian Standard Time. 
d. Different parts of this contract are to be taken as mutually explanatory and 
supplementary to each other and if there is any differentiation between or among 
the parts of this contract, they shall be interpreted in a harmonious manner so as to 
give effect to each part. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 10 of 138 
 
e. The table of contents and any headings or subheadings in the contract has been 
inserted for case of reference only & shall not affect the interpretation of this 
document. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 11 of 138 
 
SECTION 2. SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
3 Scope of Work 
3.1 Under this RfS, the BESSD shall be required to set up a Battery Energy Storage 
System (BESS), with the primary objective of making the energy storage facility 
available to the Buying Entity i.e., KSEBL  for charging/discharging of the  BESS, on 
an “on demand” basis. Detailed criteria for performance are elaborated in Clause 8 of 
the RfS. 
3.2 Setting up of the BESS and interconnection of the BESS with the STU network 
including the construction of Bay will be under the scope of the BESSD. Entire 
Operation & maintenance including safety of the equipment / personnel will be under 
the scope of the BESSD. This RfS is technology agnostic on the nature of battery 
storage system being opted by the BESSD, as long as it meets the definition of BESS 
under this RfS and the required performance criteria under the RfS and BESPA. 
3.3 The BESS shall be charged by drawing power from KSEBL and inject power to 
KSEBL network in accordance with the dispatch instructions issued by SLDC. KSEBL 
will provide required power for charging BESS. Scheduling of charging and 
discharging of BESS shall be under the scope of KSEBL. 
4 Total capacity offered and Project sizing. 
4.1 Selection of BESS Projects for a total capacity of 250 MW/ 500 MWh will be carried 
out through e-bidding followed by e -Reverse Auction process. The minimum bid size 
shall be 500 MWh i.e. 250 MW x 2 hours and the detail of the project is furnished in 
Annexure-E. The project size shall be quoted as 250MW X 2hrs (500MWh). 
For project size of 250 MW/ 500 MWh, approximately 09-acre of land will be allotted to 
the BESSD. 
Selection of Project Developers will be carried out based on the Tariff (Capacity 
Charge) offered by the Bidders. In this context, the term “Project” used anywhere in 
the RfS, and BESPA, will solely mean the BESS, set up by the BESSD to make 
available the Contracted Capacity as agreed to in the BESPA 
4.2 For the specified Contracted Capacity, any over sizing of the BESS over the minimum 
rated Energy capacities required under this RfS is left to the discretion of the BESSD. 
However, it is to be noted that, at the time of commissioning, rated capacity of the 
BESS (Power and Energy) to be installed as indicated in the BESPA, will be verified 
4.3 Project Configuration: 
The Projects shall be set up in the vicinity of the BDP P, 220kV Brahmapuram 
Substation, as below: 
S. 
No. 
Name of the Substation Location Connectivity 
voltage 
Proposed 
BESS 
capacity in 
MW/ MWh 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 12 of 138 
 
1. 220kV SS Brahmapuram 9.996928 
76.371255 
220 kV 250/ 500 
 
4.4 The Bidder is required to design the Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) under 
the BESPA, ensuring that the BESS can charge and discharge with a C - rate of 0.5. 
Additionally, the BESS must be capable of being charged or discharged starting from 
20 MW/40 MWh and variable smoothly upto the total rated capacity as specified in the 
Agreement. 
With the BESS with a capacity of 250 MW / 500 MWh, the system must be capable of 
charging or discharging by allowing the system to manage capacity starting from 20 
MW and smoothly progressing to 250 MW. 
5 Contracted Capacity Allocation for a Bidder 
Following conditions shall be applicable to the Bidders for submission of bids against 
this RfS: 
5.1 The total capacity of 250 MW/500 MWh, shall be set up, as shown in Annexure – E. A 
Bidder, including its Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company shall 
submit a single bid offering a Project Capacity of complete 250MW / 500 MWh. The 
Project Capacity to be quoted shall be in the form of “x” MW/”2x” MWh, i.e. the BESS 
system shall be rated for 2 hours’ charging and 2 hours discharging in 1 cycle. 
Note: In case a common Company/Companies directly or indirectly hold(s) more than 
10% but less than 26% shareholding in more than one Bidder participating in the RfS, 
each of such Bidders will be required to submit the Disclosure as per Format 7.8A. In 
all other cases, Format 7.8 will be applicable. 
5.2 The cumulative Project Capacity to be allocated to a Bidder including its Parent, 
Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company shall be limited to 250 MW/500 
MWh. 
5.3 The evaluation of bids shall be carried out as described in Section -4 of RfS. The 
methodology for Allocation of Projects is elaborated in Section-4 of RfS. 
5.4 Subject to the exception as per Clause 5.1 above, multiple bids from same company 
including its Parent/ Ultimate Parent/Affiliates/Group Companies shall make all the 
bids submitted by the group invalid 
5.5 Project Developer Eligibility: Both public and private sectors are encouraged to  
participate in the tender and that there should be at least one bid from a private sector 
participant, failing which the bid shall be cancelled and tender will be floated afresh. 
6 Project Location 
6.1 The total Project capacity of 250 MW /500 MWh shall be located in the vicinity of 220 
kV Substation Brahmapuram of the STU network  as per information mentioned in 
Annexure-E, in the state of Kerala. Land allocation for the Projects will be under the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 13 of 138 
 
scope of KSEBL owning the identified substation . Land will be provided on right -to 
use basis to the BESSD at annual lease charge of Rs 1 per project per year through 
suitable agreement with KSEBL. Project land details are enclosed herewith at 
Annexure-E. The bidders as discovered after the e -Reverse auction, will be provided 
land area as mentioned in table below.  
Sl Project Name of 
Substation 
Proposed 
BESS 
Capacity 
in MWh 
Bay 
Availability 
Interconne
cting 
Voltage 
(kV) 
Space 
Availability 
(in Acres) 
1 250 
MW 
220 kV SS 
Brahmapur
am 
500 Bay to be 
extended in 
BESSD 
Scope 
220 9 
6.2 The land area will be given to the BESSD by KSEBL for Right of Use (ROU) within 60 
days from the signing of the BESPA as per provisions of RfS. In case of any delay in 
signing of ROU agreement of land to the BESSD, the Financial Closure and 
Commissioning milestones will be suitably extended. 
6.3  
a) The layout and single line diagram of Brahmapuram sub - station is enclosed as part 
of Annexure–E, clearly showing the BESS area. 
b) The area identified for BESS is also identified as per enclosed layout and for 
approach to BESS, it is required to construct the approach road separately by the 
BESSD for accessing the Project, without hindering the O&M activities of the sub -
station. 
c) As Battery Energy Storage System is prone to fire hazard, the BESSD shall provide 
suitable means such as fire barrier between switchyard and BESS to avoid fire to 
spread from BESS to Yard equipment. 
d) The bidders are encouraged to visit the proposed project location prior to 
submission of bids. Any further requests regarding construction of bay or site shall 
not be entertained after bid submission.  
e) Contact details of concerned officers from KSEBL for the site visit are as follows: 
S. No Substation Name Contact Details 
 
1. 
 
220kV SS Brahmapuram 
Assistant Executive Engineer, 
220kV SS Brahmaouram 
Ph : 9446008371 
 
2. 
 
BDPP Premises 
Assistant Engineer 
BDPP 
Ph: 9496009254 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 14 of 138 
 
6.4 After the expiry/termination of the BESPA, the entire land area allocated to the 
BESSD shall be returned to KSEBL in the same condition or in mutually agreed 
condition as it was allocated. The duration of the land Right to Use agreement shall 
be co-extensive and co-terminus with the duration of the BESPA. If the BESSD does 
not vacate the allocated land area and/or does not uninstall the entire Project 
equipment from the designated land area upon expiry/termination of the BESPA 
within 180 days  of expiry/ termination of BESPA, KSEBL shall charge the applicable 
market price/circle rate for the respective land parcels, as fixed by the concerned 
Revenue Authorities of the Government, as part of penalty on the BESSD till they 
hand over the land in same condition as it was allocated.  
7 Connectivity with the Grid 
7.1 Projects should be designed for interconnection with the State Transmission Network 
(STU) network in accordance with the prevailing CERC/KSERC regulations, Grid 
Connectivity and Intra -state Open Access Regulations and amendments thereto, in 
this regard. For interconnection with the grid and metering, the BESSD shall abide by 
all rules and regulations framed under the Electricity Act, 2003 including the 
applicable Grid Code, Grid Connectivity Standards, Regulations on Communication 
System for transmission of electricity and other Regulations/Procedures (as amended 
from time to time) issued by Appropriate Commissions and Central Electricity 
Authority (CEA). Under this RFS, the voltage for interconnection at the STU shall be 
220 kV. BESSD shall also comply with the applicable requirements mentioned in the 
First Time Charging (FTC) regulations/rules issued by the Central/State Government, 
as amended from time to time. The term Grid network/substation wherever indicated 
in the RfS/BESPA/ BESSA shall refer to the “STU network”, wherever applicable. 
7.2 The project shall be interconnected to the KSEBL sub -station as per Annexure–E in 
Kerala. Necessary applications for grant of connectivity will be required to be made by 
the BESSD to KSEBL. All the requisite costs associated with obtaining connectivity 
such as bay construction and bus extension cost and other related infrastructure cost 
& requisite fee shall be borne by the BESSD. 
7.3 The responsibility of getting connectivity with the transmission system of the STU 
shall entirely be of the BESSD and shall be at the cost of the BESSD, in line with 
applicable regulations. The transmission of power up to the point of interconnection, 
where metering is done for energy accounting, shall be the responsibility of the 
BESSD at its own cost. The maintenance of Transmission system up to the 
interconnection point on the BESS side shall be responsibility of the BESSD, to be 
undertaken entirely at its risk and cost. 
7.4 The entire cost of construction of infrastructure from the Project upto and including at 
the Interconnection Point, including but not limited to the transmission line, including 
the construction of the Bay, Bus bar protection relay augmentation with installation of 
protection and control panel, maintenance & all cost up to the delivery point shall be 
borne by the BESSD. The maintenance of the Transmission system up to the 
interconnection point shall be the responsibility of the BESSD, to be undertaken 
entirely at its cost and expense. The SLDC/Scheduling charges, connectivity and 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 15 of 138 
 
other charges shall be payable by BESSD. 
7.5 The BESSD shall be required to follow the Detailed Procedure as issued by CERC/ 
CTU/ STU /SERC as applicable, regarding connectivity of the Project. The Project 
shall comply with all the technical requirements specified under CEA/CEIG, including 
subsequent amendments and clarifications issued thereto, as well as other 
Rules/Regulations issued by SERC/CERC/CEA/CEIG and as amended from time to 
time. It is further clarified that the Entities (BESSD and Buying Entity) as indicated in 
the procedure issued under the above Rules/Regulations, will be responsible for their 
respective obligation as notified in the procedure, irrespective of the provisions of the 
RfS, and BESPA. The Project shall also comply with the SERC/CEIG/CEA (Measures 
relating to Safety and Electric Supply) Regulations, including subsequent 
amendments and clarifications issued thereto. 
Important Notes: 
(i) Bidders must make note of the information pertaining to the land allocated for the 
project and space for bay construction at the substation. 
(ii) Tentative coordinates of the Interconnection point shall be provided. 
The BESSD shall provide adequate protection system to ensure synchronized 
operation of the BESS to the grid. All associated equipments and protection system of 
BESS shall be compatible with the existing Substation system. Provision for 
communicating both real time data and metering data to SLDC and control room of 
220kV SS Brahmapuram shall be ensured and are under the scope of BESSD. 
7.6 Metering arrangement of the Project shall have to be adhered to in line with relevant 
clause of the BESPA. All relevant parameters of energy injected and drawn by the 
project shall be measured and continuously recorded by means of a main meter, 
check meter and standby meter as specified by KSEBL. Power Quality Meter shall 
also be provided as per extant regulations. 
The BESSD shall install Special Energy Meters (SEM) as specified in the Central 
Electricity Authority (Installation and Operation of Meters) Regulations, 2006 as 
amended from time to time, for accounting the quantum of energy generated, the 
quantum of energy injected into the transmission and/or distribution system and he 
quantum of energy consumed. The Special Energy Meters installed shall be capable 
of measuring the 15 minutes time -block-wise active energy and reactive energy', in 
accordance with the Central Electricity Authority (Installation and Operation of Meters) 
Regulations, 2006 as amended from time to time and the provisions of State Grid 
Code.  
The BESSD shall install power quality meter and share the recorded data thereof with 
the KSEBL with such periodicity as may be specified by the appropriate Electricity 
Regulatory Commission. PQ meter to be installed shall be able to measure harmonics 
as well as other power quality parameters such as voltage sag, swell, flicker, 
disruptions at POI as per Central Electricity Authority (Technical Standards for 
Connectivity to the Grid) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019. Also, the power Quality 
Meter shall conform to ILC 61000 / IEEE Standard 519, Class A and various 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 16 of 138 
 
parameters to be measured include DC current injection, harmonics, voltage sag. 
swell, flicker and other disruptions. 
7.7 The BESSD shall comply with KSERC/ CERC regulations on Forecasting, Scheduling 
and Deviation Settlement, as applicable from time to time. The scheduling of power 
to/from the Project as per the applicable regulation shall be provided by the KSEBL. 
However, any DSM penalties due to violation of the schedule of charging or 
discharging of the BESS due to reasons attributable to BESS shall be to the account 
of the BESSD. DSM penalties, if any, shall be levied separately on the respective 
entities as applicable, at their respective ends for the charging and discharging 
activities. Any consequential liability on KSEBL in respect of charging/ discharging 
power purchase/ sale due to Deviation (DSM) at BESS end shall be to the account of 
BESSD. 
7.8 In order to remove potential discrepancies and ambiguities, the BESSDs are hereby 
instructed that, as part of scheduling of power to/from the Project, they will be required 
to punch-in their respective schedules and subsequent revisions, by themselves, at 
the interfaces of the SLDC concerned for the corridor of power flow, including the 
Transmission Utility, as per the provisions in this RfS, regulations in force, under 
intimation to SLDC. KSEBL may facilitate in identification of any discrepancy and 
assist the BESSD for its early rectification without any liability on KSEBL. The BESSD 
shall be solely responsible for discrepancy identification and its rectification to avoid 
any rejection/loss payment of invoices. 
7.9 DSM penalties, if any, shall be levied separately on the BESSD as applicable, at their 
BESSD ends for the charging and discharging activities as per CERC/ KSERC 
regulations. 
7.10 Reactive power charges shall be on account of the BESSD as applicable, at the 
BESSD end during charging and discharging, as per CERC/KSERC regulations. It is 
to be ensured that Harmonics has to be maintained within the prescribed limit as per 
the Regulations/Procedures (as amended from time to time) issued by Appropriate 
Commissions and Central Electricity Authority (CEA). 
7.11 The BESSD shall be required to follow the applicable Procedure for Grant of 
connectivity as issued by KSERC as well as other Regulations issued by 
KSERC/CEA as amended from time to time. The BESSDs will be required to apply for 
connectivity at the identified substations within 30 days of singing of BESPA and shall 
furnish copies of the application as well as granted connectivity, to CE (REES&PED) 
at the earliest. In case the BESSD fails to obtain the connectivity at a Substation 
identified, the same shall be immediately notified by the BESSD to CE (REES&PED). 
At least 30 days prior to the proposed commissioning date, the BESSD shall be 
required to submit the Connectivity Agreement signed with the STU/ KSEBL to CE 
(REES&PED). 
7.12 The responsibility of complying with Central Electricity Regulatory Commission 
(Connectivity and General Network Access to the Inter -State Transmission System) 
Regulations, 2022 as indicated in the Detailed Procedure issued subsequently under 
the above Regulation vests with the BESSD. It is further clarified that the Entities 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 17 of 138 
 
(BESSD and Buying Entity), will be responsible for their respective obligations as 
notified in the applicable Regulations irrespective of the provisions of the RfS and 
BESPA. 
The Bay extension, Bus Extension / Addition of Bay equipments in the existing bay 
shall be in conformance to the General Layout of the substation and shall be 
constructed after obtaining approval of the Deputy Chief Engineer, Transmission 
Circle Kalamassery of KSEBL. Prior approval of design of Earth mat being laid by the 
BESSD shall be obtained from Transmission wing of KSEBL. The scheme of 
Protection shall also be similarly got approved and the status of Interconnecting 
Circuit Breaker, Isolators shall be made available for integrating to the SCADA of the 
Sub-Station. The Current, Voltage and Power parameters at BESS Bay shall be 
provided available for integrating to the SCADA of the Sub-Station. 
The BESSD is required to place all the Control & Relay panels and RTU required for 
Data Transfer at separate control room at BESS Premises. Independent RTU shall be 
provided by the developer and the SCADA Screen of BESS shall be shared to 
Substation Control room and SLDC in developers scope. The transfer of data to 
SLDC and to 220kV Brahmapuram Substation Control room shall be in entire scope 
of the BESSD including internet connectivity. Cyber Security measures shall be 
complied with by the BESSD. The BESSD shall comply with cyber security guidelines 
issued by the competent authority, from time to time, and the technical standards for 
communication system in Power Sector laid down by the Authority. The adequate 
firewalls must be in place at BESS plant end where the data of BESS is integrated 
with the SLDCs. 
All provisions of Make in India (MII) orders and orders related to Cyber Security 
issued by the government must be complied with, in all the activities involved in the 
project(s) from start to completion. 
The specifications of the Interconnecting Transformer shall be pre -approved by 
Transmission wing of KSEBL. The timeline for approval shall be thirty days from 
submission of application in this regard. 
8 Performance Criteria of the Project 
8.1 Project performance parameters 
a. The Contracted Capacity of the Project shall be in terms of “MW”, which shall also be 
referred to as the Project Capacity. KSEBL’s obligation shall be for off -take of entire 
Contracted Capacity and energy at Delivery point. 
b.  For example, for the Project Capacity of 250 MW/ 500 MWh, Contracted Capacity 
shall be 250 MW. The BESPA shall entitle KSEBL to schedule discharge upto 500 
MWh of energy from the BESS in each cycle, subject to the following: 
i. Buying entity will schedule charging of the BESS with equal amount of energy 
plus energy expected to be lost as conversion losses (determined from the 
Round-Trip Efficiency (RtE)  of the system  as declared by the BESSD on day 
ahead basis). 
Illustration: For a Contracted Capacity of 250 MW/500 MWh, assuming an RtE of 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 18 of 138 
 
85%, KSEBL shall schedule and supply charging power to the tune of 588.24 
MWh, to expect a discharge of 500 MWh as per the desired schedule. 
ii. Energy scheduled for discharge in a given cycle during a year shall be more than 
or equal to the Min. Dispatchable Energy Capacity at the End of Year as specified  
under Article 4.4.2.(c) of BESPA and as per Clause 8.1.e.iv. below.  
For example, during the end of the 3rd Year after COD, the energy scheduled for 
discharge from 250 MW/ 500 MWh capacity shall be more than or equal to 250 
x 0.925 x 2 = 462.5 MWh. 
iii. Contracted capacity shall be the project capacity at delivery point. KSEBL shall 
provide the charging energy factoring the RtE, as per specified RtE in RfS. 
c. The total Project Capacity shall be for supply to and offtake by KSEBL and there will 
be no merchant capacity. The BESS shall adhere to the specifications and performance 
requirements laid out in Annexure-A of the RfS in this regard. 
d. Power rating of the project capacity of 500 MWh (250 MW x 2 hrs) BESS will be 250 
MW, i.e., the maximum value of the active output at the Delivery Point. Input energy 
shall be provided by KSEBL at delivery point for contract capacity as illustrat ed in 8.1 
(b). The Energy rating of 500 MWh of the system will be the dispatchable capacity at 
COD of the system , as measured at the Metering Point. Terms and definitions of 
terminologies related to BESS shall be as defined in IEC 62933-2-1. 
e. The BESSD shall make the BESS available for Single operational cycles per day , 
i.e. One complete charge-discharge cycle per day.  
Provided that KSEBL, at its discretion, can split the discharge of the stored energy 
upto three sessions. The discharge may also be performed at below the rated power, 
stretching upto 8 Hours. For purpose of BESS operation, a day shall be reckoned as 
from 06:00 hrs on a day to 06:00 hrs on next day. The discharge extended beyond 
24:00 hrs shall be reckoned to be performed on the same day. There shall be no 
mandatory cooling period between two sessions of same operation. (Charging or 
Discharging). Similarly, the charging may also be performed upto 10 hours and upto 
three sessions. 
The BESS shall be operated for occasional dual cycles in a day subject maximum of 5 
(Five) dual cycle days in a month, however subject to the annual limit of 400 cycles. 
It is hereby clarified that the BESS should be designed to provide a minimum of 2  
Hours of discharging capacity at rated power. However, KSEBL, at its sole discretion, 
can schedule discharging of the BESS upto three sessions each day, at rated power 
or stretching upto 8 Hours when discharged below rated power. 
 
Illustration (Discharge) : 
(1) 
Session Time Power 
(MW) 
Duration 
(Minutes) 
Energy 
Discharged 
(MWh) 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 19 of 138 
 
1 17:00 to 17:15 20 15 5 
     
2 18:00 to 18:30 100 30 50 
 18:30 to 19:30 250 60 250 
 19:30 to 20:00 40 30 20 
     
3 20:30 to 22:15 100 105 175 
   195 500 
(2) 
Session Time Power 
(MW) 
Duration 
(Minutes) 
Energy 
Discharge
d 
(MWh) 
1 18:00 to 01:00 50 420 350 
2 01:30 to 02:00 250 30 125 
3 02:30 to 03:00 50 30 25 
   480 500 
 
f. Following provisions shall be applicable on the entire Project Capacity guaranteed to 
be off taken by KSEBL: 
i. The procurement shall be in power (MW) terms. The BESSD shall install, 
operate and maintain the BESS to offer facility to KSEBL to charge and 
discharge the BESS on an “on demand” basis. The BESSD shall guarantee a 
minimum system availability of 95% on annual basis for Charging Cycles. The 
BESSD shall pay the liquidated damages for shortfall, if any, to KSEBL. 
Amount of such liquidated damages shall be 1.5 Times the Capacity Charges 
for the capacity not made available during charging cycles. The BESSD shall 
declare availability on Day Ahead Basis. The BESSD should provide the DC 
(Declared Capacity) for each time block for the day before 09:00 hours the 
previous day. The tentative instructions for scheduling of charging and 
discharging will be issued by SLDC by 15:00 hours on the previous day. 
Schedule revisions will be issued by SLDC upto two clear 15 -minute time 
blocks prior to the schedule period. However, as per Grid requirements, the 
SLDC shall request real -time schedule revisions, which shall be implemented 
real time and no later than the end of next time block. 
Revisions to the Declared Capacity (DC) by the BESSD shall be submitted at 
least six clear 15 -minute time block in advance. Frequent revision to DC, 
especially during evening peak hours, shall not be entertained and no more 
than two such revisions shall be permitted from 18:00 to 22:00 hours in a 
month. The discharge schedule from SLDC shall not be altered in such cases 
and will be treated as shortfall in discharge commitment. 
Intrastate Deviation Settlement Mechanism (DSM) shall become applicable as 
and when notified by KSERC / CERC. 
The Monthly Average Availability shall be calculated for each month. On the 
basis of monthly Availability, Annual Average Availability shall be calculated. 
The illustration is provided as under: 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 20 of 138 
 
ILLUSTRATION: 
 
 
Month 
Monthly 
Average 
Availability 
Annual Average Availability = 
{Σ (Monthly Average Availability)}/ 12 
1 95%  
 
 
 
(95%+95%+93%+97%+93%+98% 
+95%+92%+96%+95%+91%+90%) /12 
= 94.16 % 
2 95% 
3 93% 
4 97% 
5 93% 
6 98% 
7 95% 
8 92% 
9 96% 
10 95% 
11 91% 
12 90% 
 
ii. “Availability” of the Project shall mean the ability of the BESS to execute a 
function i.e. charging or discharging, when called upon to do so, as per the 
schedule or signal provided by the off -taker, subject to the minimum system 
ratings specified herein. In addition, the BESSD shall also demonstrate , on 
annual basis, 100% of the minimum dispatchable capacity of the BESS as 
required under Clause 8.1.e.iv below. 
For a given BESPA, the Annual availability guarantee during Charging period 
shall commence from the date of fully commissioning of the system and shall be 
calculated as below: 
Monthly System Availability = Mean of the System availabilities of all 
time-blocks during the month in which the KSEBL has scheduled 
power for charging the BESS. 
Where, 
System Availability in a time-block= 
 𝐴𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑙 𝑀𝑈𝑖(𝐴)  , 𝑆𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑙𝑒𝑑 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑙 𝑀𝑈𝑖(𝐵) 
where 
a) i refers to the ith time-block in the Month where Scheduled Injection MUi ≠ 
0. 
b) Actual Drawl MUi is the Actual Energy for Charging in the ith time-block, in 
MUs 
c) Scheduled Drawl MU i is the Energy Scheduled for Charging in the i th 
time-block, in MUs 
d) A and B shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports published by the SLDC or 
measurement at the Main ABT Meter at the Point of Interconnection. 
System Annual availability shall be calculated as per above. The 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 21 of 138 
 
liquidated damages for system availability below 95% shall be settled on 
monthly basis and if it is not able to settle in the same/ current month, it will 
be carried forward for settlement in subsequent month(s). 
If the Annual un-availability of 5% is already reached during part of a year, 
the Monthly Capacity Charges will be paid only after deducting the 
Penalty for Availability. 
 
iii. The BESSD shall guarantee a minimum AC to AC roundtrip efficiency (RtE) 
of 85% for the system on monthly basis. The BESSD shall be liable for 
Liquidated Damages to the off -taker, if any, on account of excess conversion 
losses, based on the following conditions: 
(a) For RtE <70%, there shall be a liquidated damage @ APPC tariff of 
previous financial year of the KSEBL, levied upon the excess conversion  
losses, considering system RtE = 85% and tariff payment for the 
corresponding month shall not be made to the BESSD; 
(b) For 70% ≤ RtE < 85%, there shall be a liquidated damage levied @ APPC 
tariff of previous financial year of KSEBL, levied upon excess conversion 
losses considering system RtE = 85%. 
(c) For RtE > 85%, there shall be incentive @Rs. 0.50 per unit of excess 
discharge of energy considering system RtE = 85% 
System Roundtrip Efficiency = 
= 𝐒𝐮𝐦 𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐨𝐟 𝐀𝐜𝐭𝐮𝐚𝐥 𝐈𝐧𝐣𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧/𝐃𝐢𝐬𝐜𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐌𝐔𝐬𝐣 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐦𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐡 (𝐂)
𝐒𝐮𝐦 𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐨𝐟 𝐀𝐜𝐭𝐮𝐚𝐥 𝐃𝐫𝐚𝐰𝐚𝐥/𝐂𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐌𝐔𝐬𝐣 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐦𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐡 (𝐃)  
Where, 
 
j refers to the jth month in a year; 
D ≠ 0; 
D <= 2 x Ebess x (MDn -1 – (MDn-1 – MDn) x j/12)  x No of 
Days in the jth month/ RtEg;  
Ebess refers to Energy Rating specified in Clause 8.1.b. above; 
MDn-1 refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the 
previous year (as a % of Capacity at the COD specified in Clause 8.1.e.iv. 
below); 
MDn refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the 
current year; 
RtEg refers to the guaranteed Round-Trip Efficiency under the BESPA; 
C and D shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports published by the Regional 
RPCs/SLDCs or measurement at the Main ABT Meter at the Point of 
Interconnection. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 22 of 138 
 
For calculation of LD, RtE shall be calculated based on the above formula 
rounded off to three decimal places. 
Note: 
• The Scheduled capacity shall be subject to the System Power Rating 
specified in Clause 8.1.a. above and 8.1.b above. 
• The BESSD shall take separate, metered connection for the Auxiliary Power 
load of BESS 
or 
The BESSD can draw auxiliary power from Interconnection point. Separate 
meter shall be provided by Developer to measure Auxiliary consumption and 
that would be billed by KSEBL @ Industrial Tariff excluding demand charges, 
subject to approval of Hon’ble KSERC. 
All Expenses towards availing the connection, including but not limited to Line 
Extension / Panel or RMU erection, for Auxiliary Power shall be at expense of 
the BESSD. 
The BESSD shall declare RtE on Day Ahead basis along with Declared 
Capacity. 
iv. Taking into consideration capacity degradation, the minimum dispatchable 
energy to be made available by the BESSD at the end of a given year shall be 
as follows: 
Contract 
Year 
Min. Dispatchable Capacity at the end of Year (as a 
% of Capacity at the Beginning of Life/Final COD) 
1 97.5% 
2 95.0% 
3 92.5% 
4 90.0% 
5 87.5% 
6 85.0% 
7 82.5% 
8 80.0% 
9 77.5% 
10 75.0% 
11 72.5% 
12 70.0% 
13 70.0% 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 23 of 138 
 
14 70.0% 
15 70.0% 
16 70.0% 
 
v. The nameplate ratings shall be achievable during discharge for the full range of 
environmental conditions at the project site when the battery is fully charged. In 
any case, the BESS shall be capable of being discharged at reduced power 
levels from that specified above. The energy discharged from the battery shall 
be greater than that specified above. 
vi. The BESSD is required to meet the Discharge energy commitment subject to 
Clause ( iv) above. The Discharge Energy Commitment shall be 95 % of the 
Energy scheduled for dispatch on monthly basis . The BESSD shall be liable for 
Liquidated Damages to KSEBL, if any, on account of short fall in supply of 
committed energy at the Average Market Clearing Price (MCP) in peak hour 
(18:30Hrs-20:30Hrs) in Day Ahead Market (DAM) of Power Exchange for 
corresponding billing month period. 
The BESSD shall be eligible for incentive, from completion of one year after 
CoD of entire project capacity @ Rs.1.00 per unit for the excess discharge of 
energy for the quantum discharged by KSEBL in excess of the minimum 
dispatchable energy taking into consideration YoY capacity degradation as 2 %. 
For example: The minimum dispatchable capacity during the fifth year with the 
initial capacity as 500 MWh is (500 -500*2.5%*5) = 437.5 MWh. The incentive is 
applicable if BESS delivers more than 450 MWh (500 -500*2%*5) in the fifth 
year. If the BESS is discharged in excess of 450MWh during any day during 
discharge cycle in the fifth year of operation, the excess discharged units will be 
eligible for incentive of Rs  1/kWh. This will be settled on monthly basis. The 
incentive will not be applicable during discharge cycles where the BESS is not 
scheduled above 450MWh in example above.  
The disbursement of incentives shall be effective along with the monthly bills.  
vii. SLDC shall, in accordance with Applicable Laws and Regulations thereunder, 
issue instructions to the BESSD on behalf of KSEBL for dispatch of electricity to 
the Grid during such period and in such volume as it may specify in its 
instructions. The BESSD shall clearly specify the maximum recovery times 
required to restore the BESS for functional availability between duty cycles. The 
maximum allowed cooling time between Charge to Discharge or Discharge to 
charge would be 1 hr. There shall be no cooling or recovery time between two 
sessions during charging or discharging operation. 
viii. Operational Window:  Operational Window shall mean the expected 
hours/duration of system (capacity) availability on each day during the term of 
the Contract, excluding: 
a. Maximum BESS recovery time as specified in this document 
b. Grid Outages (duly certified to this effect by the Grid Operator) 
c. Planned Maintenance Outage duly informed by the BESSD to the off-taker 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 24 of 138 
 
with at least one month’s prior notice, subject to total no. of planned outage 
period being not more than 34 hours in a two-month period. 
d. The Scheduled maintenance must be carried out during monsoon season, 
subject to prior approval from KSEBL. 
BESSD will have to comply with the Charging and Discharging Schedule as 
intimated by SLDC.  
ix. In addition to above, the BESSD shall also submit Available Energy Test Report 
for the Project Capacity as per IEC 62933-2-1 on Annual basis. 
x. It shall be the responsibility of the BESSD to make periodic 
replacements/replenishments of system capacities at its own cost to ensure 
annual guaranteed system ratings, if and when required, up to the Term of the 
Contract. Outage time as a result of replacement will also be counted as an 
“Accountable BESS Outage” for the purpose of computing BESS Availability. 
g. Pursuant to the provisions as above, the BESSD shall plan the dispatch of electricity 
and convey its availability for scheduling thereof by the SLDC and shall supply 
electricity in accordance with the provisions of the Grid Code and the Electricity Act, 
2003. The BESSD shall adhere  to all the  technical requirements as brought out in 
Annexure-A of the  RfS. The BESS shall conform to all the applicable standards of 
CEA/CEIG and regulations  of CERC/KSERC  for connectivity, metering, 
communication with the grid operators, etc. 
 
8.2 Shortfall in meeting Performance Criteria 
Following provisions shall be applicable on the Contracted Capacity guaranteed to be 
offtaken by KSEBL: 
i. Shortfall in demonstrating minimum Availability: Subsequent to COD of full 
Project capacity or capacity accepted by KSEBL , in case the annual Availability  
during Charging Cycles demonstrated by the BESSD is less than the  minimum as 
specified above, such shortfall in performance shall  make the BESSD liable to pay 
the liquidated damages to KSEBL. 
Liquidated damages on account of shortfall in meeting the minimum Availability 
criteria as per Clause 8.1.e.i., will be computed as follows: 
Liquidated damages in Rs.= (A – B) x C x D x n x 1.5 
where, 
A is Guaranteed Annual Availability (in %) as per Clause 8.1.f.i. above; 
B is Actual Annual System Availability (in %) , as calculated  as per Clause 8.1.f.ii. 
above; 
C is BESS Power Capacity (in MW); 
D is Capacity Charges Rs/MW/month as discovered through bidding process; 
n is the number of months 
 
In case of the BESS failing to meet minimum 50% of the stipulated availability 
applicable for a particular Contract Year as per Clause 8.1.f.4 above, for a 
cumulative period of 2 years or more during the Term of the BESPA, the shortfall 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 25 of 138 
 
shall be considered as BESSD Event of Default under the BESPA, and failure to 
rectify this Event will result in termination of the BESPA. 
 
In case the BESSD fails to meet the monthly RtE demonstration as per Clause 
8.1.f.iii above, additional Liquidated Damages for the unavailability of the required 
minimum RtE shall be applicable for the entire month. 
It is clarified that the calculation of Availability as per Clause 8.1.f.ii of the RfS will 
not include the planned outage as declared by the BESSD under Clause 8.1.f.vii of 
the RfS. However, in case the BESSD notifies any outage outside the planned 
outage hours, while KSEBL may not actually schedule any power injection/drawl 
during those outage hours, such hours will be covered in calculating the Monthly 
Availability as per Clause 8.1.f.ii. 
For example, in case the BESSD notifies outage for 10 hours outside the total 
allocated quota of planned outage amounting to (34 x 6) hours, i.e. 204 hours, the 
denominator of the formula in Clause 8.1.f.ii above will include the time -blocks 
corresponding to these 10 hours, and exclude the 204 hours of planned outage. 
However, this damage shall not be leviable to the extent the availability of system 
is affected due to Force Majeure event as specified under the agreement. An 
illustration to this effect is enclosed at Annexure-D. 
ii. Shortfall in demonstrating minimum Round-trip-Efficiency: In case the BESSD 
fails to meet the monthly RtE demonstration as per Clause 8.1.f. iii above, 
Liquidated Damages for the shortfall in required minimum RtE shall be applicable 
for the month. 
iii. Shortfall in Supply of Committed energy: as per provision of RfS Clause 8.1.f.vi 
 
9 Commissioning of Projects 
The Commissioning of the Project shall be carried out by the BESSD in line with the 
procedure as per the BESPA.  
The BESSD shall commission the Project in line with provisions of the SERC/CERC 
(Indian Electricity Grid Code) Regulations, 2023, as amended from time to time. In line 
with this regulation, the BESSD proposing the Project, or its part, for commissioning, 
shall give to KSEBL, a preliminary notice not later than 60 days prior and advance 
notice not later than 30 days prior to the proposed commissioning date. KSEBL may 
authorize any individual or committee or organization to witness and validate the 
commissioning procedure on site. Commissioning certificates shall be issued by 
KSEBL after successful commissioning. The BESSD shall obtain necessary safety 
clearances from the Central Electricity Authority/CEIG/ State Electrical Inspectorate 
prior to commissioning of the Project. 
9.1 Part Commissioning 
Part commissioning of the Project, without prejudice to the imposition of any liquidated 
damages in terms of the BESPA on the part which is not commissioned, shall be 
accepted by KSEBL subject to the condition that the minimum part commissioning 
capacity for the 1st part will be 50% of Project Capacity. The total number of instalments in 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 26 of 138 
 
which a Project can be commissioned will not be more than 3, i.e., 1 st initial instalment 
and 2 subsequent instalments. 
However, the SCD will not get altered due to part commissioning. Irrespective of dates 
of part commissioning or full commissioning, the BESPA will remain in force for a period 
as per Clause 22.5 of the RfS. 
9.2 Commissioning Schedule and Liquidated Damages not amounting to Penalty for 
Delay in Commissioning 
a. The Scheduled Commissioning Date (SCD) for commissioning of the full capacity of the 
Project shall be the date as on 18 months from the Effective Date of BESPA (for e.g. if 
Effective Date of the BESPA is 05.12.2025, then SCD shall be 04.06.2027). 
b. The maximum time period allowed for commissioning of the full Project Capacity with 
applicable liquidated damages, shall be limited to the date as on 6 months from the 
SCD or the extended SCD (if applicable). 
c. In case of delay in commissioning of the Project beyond the SCD until the date as per 
Clause 9.2.b. above, as part of liquidated damages , the total PBG amount for the 
Project shall be encashed on per -day-basis and proportionate to the balance capacity 
not commissioned. For example, in case of a Project Capacity of 250 MW capacity, if 
commissioning of 100 MW capacity is  delayed by 18 days beyond the SCD, then the 
liquidated damages shall be calculated as: PBG amount X (100/250) X (18/ 180). For 
the purpose of calculations of liquidated damages, ‘month’ shall be considered 
consisting of 30 days. 
d. As an alternative to the above encashment of PBG, the BESSD may choose to make a 
payment of the amount corresponding to the liquidated damages, directly to the KSEBL. 
The BESSD shall intimate to KSEBL, its chosen alternative out of the two options, within 
10 business days of intimation of the liquidated damages to the BESSD, as calculated 
by the KSEBL. In case no response is received from the BESSD until the lapse of the 
above deadline, KSEBL shall encash the PBG for the amount as per the liquidated 
damages. 
e. In case the Developer chooses to make necessary payments in lieu of the liquidated 
damages, the said  payment shall be credited to the KSEBL’s account through NEFT 
payment, no later than 5 business days from the above intimation by the BESSD. In case 
of non-payment by the developer within the above deadline, the PBG will be encashed 
by the KSEBL on the next business day. 
f. In case Commissioning of the Project is delayed beyond the date as per Clause 9.2.b 
above, the BESPA capacity shall stand reduced/amended to the Project Capacity 
commissioned until the deadline as per Clause 9.2.b. above, the entire PBG will be 
encashed by the KSEBL, and the BESPA for the Project shall stand terminated for the 
balance un-commissioned capacity. 
g. It is clarified that for the purpose of commissioning, the Project Capacity shall refer to the 
rated capacity of the Energy Storage System as declared by the BESSD in the BESPA. 
Any reduction in the Project Capacity on account of Clause 9.2.e above, will have no 
bearing on the obligation of the BESSD to provide the Contracted Capacity as per the 
BESPA. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 27 of 138 
 
10 Delay in Commissioning on Account of Delay in readiness of STU evacuation 
infrastructure/ Start Date of Connectivity 
Subsequent to grant of connectivity, in case there is a delay in readiness of the STU 
substation at the Delivery Point, including readiness of the power evacuation and 
transmission infrastructure of the STU network until SCD of the Project, or delay in 
Start Date of Connectivity, and it is established that:: 
i. The BESSD has complied with the complete application formalities as per 
Clause 7 above, 
ii. The BESSD has adhered to the applicable Regulations/Procedures in this regard 
as notified by the KSERC/STU, and 
iii. The delay in grant of connectivity by the STU and/or delay in readiness of the 
substation at the Delivery Point, including readiness of the power evacuation 
and transmission infrastructure of the STU network, is a factor attributable to 
the STU/transmission licensee and is beyond the control of the BESSD; 
 
The above shall be treated as delays beyond the control of the BESSD and SCD for 
such Projects shall be revised as the date as on 30 days subsequent to the readiness 
of the Delivery Point and power evacuation infrastructure and/or Start Date of 
Connectivity. The decision on requisite extension on account of the above  factor 
shall be taken by the KSEBL. 
In case of delay in commissioning of Project due to reasons beyond the reasonable 
control of the BESSD, KSEBL may extend the SCD after examining the issue on a case- 
to-case basis. 
In case of delay in Project commissioning on account of reasons solely attributable to 
the BESSD, resulting in any liquidated damages/penalty levied on the KSEBL, under 
the SERC / CERC / GNA Regulations, such damages/penalty shall be passed on  to 
and payable by the BESSD. 
11 Early Commissioning 
The BESSD shall be permitted for full commissioning as well as part-commissioning of 
the Project even prior to the SCD. Early commissioning of the Project will be allowed 
solely at the risk and cost of the BESSD, and KSEBL will schedule the capacity from 
such early commissioned Project at the BESPA charges (for the Contracted Capacity). 
The developer shall give fifteen (15) days’ advance notice to the Procurer(s) regarding 
the advance commissioning of full or part capacity. However, early part / full 
commissioning of the Project and subsequent capacity procurement from the same 
shall be subject to the approval of KSEBL. Such intimation regarding consent to 
procure BESS capacity from early commissioning shall be provided by KSEBL within 
15 days of receipt of the request being made by the BESSD, beyond which it would be 
considered as deemed refusal.  
Irrespective of early commissioning, BESSD shall arrange for any augmentation of the 
Battery capacity, if required, to meet the capacity criteria mentioned at the time of SCD 
(i.e., dispatchable capacity on SCD date shall be 100% of the contracted capacity) and 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 28 of 138 
 
to maintain the capacity at the end of every year as indicated in Clause 8.1(e). of the 
RfS. Subject to the provisions of the BESPA, in case of early commissioning, the 
BESSD will have to again demonstrate 100% of Contracted Capacity (as per the 
Commissioning Procedure) to KSEBL from SCD. 
12 Viability Gap Funding Mechanism 
12.1 In line with the sanction order issued by the Ministry of Power dated 09.06.2025 and 
subsequent amendments and clarifications issued by Ministry of Power, Government of 
India, Projects selected under this RfS will be eligible for grant of Viability Gap Funding 
(VGF) supported through Power System Development Fund (PSDF)  by the 
Government for development of Battery Energy Storage Systems, and the same will be 
disbursed through the KSEBL. 
12.2 Under this RfS, the VGF amount eligible for each Developer shall be limited to the 
amount calculated as Rs. 18,00,000/MWh (Rupees Eighteen Lakhs per MWh). For 
example, for a  Project Capacity of 250 MW/500 MWh, the  VGF amount to  be 
sanctioned for the corresponding Project will be Rs. 90 Crores. BESS Developer shall 
submit certificate  for the capital  cost incurred  for the Project awarded capacity, duly 
certified by the Statutory Auditors, within six months from the COD.  
12.3 VGF will be sanctioned separately for each Project, based on the Project Capacity as 
defined in the respective BESPA. 
12.4 For each Project, disbursement of VGF will be carried out in 3 tranches, as follows: 
Milestone for Disbursement of VGF % of total VGF 
disbursed 
On Financial Closure as per the BESPA, subject 
to submission of Bank Guarantee to KSEBL 
 
20 
On Commercial Operation Date (COD) of the 
Project 50 
Completion of 1st year from COD 30 
Total 100 
 
12.5 The VGF for each project shall be disbursed to the BESSD, once KSEBL/ CEA certifies 
the achievement of the disbursement schedule milestone and submission of the 
required Bank Guarantee by BESSD. KSEBL shall disburse the tranche wise VGF to 
BESSD only after receipt of the same from the Govt. of India and Submission of BG by 
BESSD as per Clause 12.6. 
12.6 Bank Guarantee: Each tranche of VGF will be disbursed only after submission of Bank 
Guarantees (BG ) for the amount equal to the VGF amount to be disbursed to the 
BESSD in that tranche. These BGs are in addition to the Performance Bank Guarantee 
provided by the developer as per clause 19 of this RfS. The BGs for the VGF 
sanctioned up to COD will be retained by the KSEBL for a period of 1 year starting from 
the COD and will be returned after the end of 1 year from COD, taking into account 
recovery of VGF, if any. No BG is required against the disbursement of the last tranche 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 29 of 138 
 
of VGF post completion of one year of operation. 
12.7 If the BESSD fails to commission the project in the timeline provided in this BESPA, 
and project got terminated after disbursement of the quantum of VGF, KSEBL will have 
full right to recover the total amount of VGF being disbursed till the date of termination 
of BESPA plus interest @ SBI-MCLR (1 Year) plus five percent, as existing on the date 
of disbursement, accrued from the date of disbursement on the disbursed amount. In 
case Project capacity is being reduced as per Clause 9.2 of the RfS, recovery of VGF 
amount shall be made on pro -rata basis corresponding to the capacity being 
terminated. 
12.8 KSEBL will have the right to recover the VGF disbursed amount through encashment of 
BG, if the BESPA gets terminated within the first 2 years after COD of the Project, on 
account of reasons solely attributable to the BESSD. Irrespective of the year of 
termination within the first 2 years after COD, the VGF amount to be recovered will be 
fixed as the amount disbursed plus interest @SBI-MCLR (1 Year) plus 5 percent, as 
existing on the date of disbursement, accrued from the date of disbursement on the 
disbursed amount. 
12.9 If the Project is transferred or sold to a third party during the above tenure, the BG will 
be re -issued by the new entity, corresponding to the amount applicable. The 
sale/transfer of the Project shall be effective only on submission of BG by new entity. 
However, this will be subject to prior approval of sanctioning authority of Grants -in-Aid 
{Rule230(9)}, in view of the asset being acquired substantially out of Government 
Grants. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 30 of 138 
 
SECTION 3. STANDARD CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
13 Obtaining RfS Documents 
Interested Bidders have to download the official copy of RfS & other documents after 
logging into the https://www.bharat-electronictender.com. The Bidder shall be eligible to 
submit/ upload the bid document only after logging into the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com (and downloading the official copy of RfS. 
14 Cost of Documents & Bid Processing Fees 
Prospective Bidders interested to participate in the bidding process are required to 
submit their Project proposals in response to this RfS document along with a non - 
refundable processing fee as mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet. A Bidder will be 
eligible to participate in the bidding process only on submission of entire financial 
amounts as per the Bid Information Sheet. Payments against Cost of RfS document and 
Bid Processing Fee shall be done only through NEFT/RTGS (electronic transfer), and 
the Bidder shall submit the transaction receipt, as part of the online bid submission. 
The bank details of NVVN are: 
i. Bank Name: ICICI Bank Limited 
ii. Branch: CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
iii. Bank Address: 9A, PHELPS BUILDING, INNER CIRCLE, NEW DELHI- 
110001 
iv. IFSC Code: ICIC0000007 
v. Account No.: 000705008910 
Bids submitted without cost of the RfS document and/or Bid Processing Fee 
and/or Bank Guarantee/Payment on Order Instrument against Earnest Money 
Deposit (EMD) (including partial submission of any one of the respective 
amounts), may be liable for rejection by NVVN. 
15 Project Scope & Technology Selection 
Under this RfS, the BESSD shall set up the Project including the transmission network 
up to the Interconnection/Delivery Point, at its own cost and in accordance to the 
provisions of this  RfS document. All approvals, permits  and clearances required for 
setting up of the Project and/or transmission network upto  the Delivery Point (along 
with connectivity), including those required from State Government and local bodies, 
shall be in the scope of the BESSD. The Projects to be selected under this RfS provide 
for deployment of Battery Energy Storage Technology. However, the selection of 
Projects would be technology agnostic within the above segment. 
16 Connectivity with the Grid 
Please refer Clause 7 of the RfS. 
 
17 Clearances Required from the Central/State Government and Other Local Bodies 
The BESSDs are required to obtain all necessary clearances and permits as required 
for setting up the Projects, including but not limited to the following: 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 31 of 138 
 
a) No Objection (NOC)/Environmental clearance (if applicable) for the Project. 
b) Approval for water from the concerned authority (if applicable) required for the 
Project. 
c) Any other clearances as may be legally required, in order to establish and 
operate the Project. 
d) Necessary approval(s) of CEIG/ State Electrical Inspectorate 
e) No Objection (NOC)/ Permit (if applicable) from the Local Body for the Project. 
f) Fire clearance. 
The above clearances, as applicable for the Project, will be required to be submitted to 
KSEBL prior to commissioning of the Project. In case of any of the clearances 
indicated above being not applicable for the said Project, the BESSD shall submit an 
undertaking in this regard, and it shall be deemed that the BESSD has 
obtained/applied for all the necessary clearances for establishing and operating the 
Project. Any consequences contrary to the above shall be the responsibility of the 
BESSD. The BESSD shall also comply with all the laws, regulations, orders and 
procedures issued by the appropriate authority, applicable for setting up and 
implementing the Project. 
The BESSD shall be required to follow the applicable rules regarding project registration 
with the State Nodal Agency in line with the provisions of the applicable 
policies/regulations of the State where the Projects are being located. It shall be the 
responsibility of the BESSD to remain updated about the applicable charges payable to 
the SNA under the applicable State policies. 
Note: The BESSD should apply for all the necessary approvals, permits and clearances 
not more than 60 days from the Effective Date of the BESPA, which shall be complete 
in all respects, incorporating the clarifications/changes as required by the concerned 
authorities. The above timeline shall be adhered to, in order to examine cases where 
the BESSD faces delay in grant of the necessary approvals and permits, for a period 
substantially greater than the standard period of grant of approval by the respective 
organizations. 
17.1 In line with the O.M. issued by the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, vide 
No. 7/10/2021 -PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023 and subsequent amendments and 
clarifications thereto, the Bidder shall meet the following criteria for its bid to be 
considered for evaluation under the RfS: 
a. Any Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to 
bid in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority (as 
defined in the OM as referred above). 
b. Any Bidder (including an Indian Bidder) who has a Specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with 
India will be eligible to participate in this RfS only if the Bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority under the referred OM. 
c. “Bidder” in this reference, means any person or firm or company, including any 
member of a consortium, every artificial juridical person not falling in any of the 
descriptions of bidders stated hereinbefore, including any agency branch or office 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 32 of 138 
 
controlled by such person, participating in this tender. 
d. “Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India” for the purpose of this 
clause, means: 
i. An entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or 
ii. A subsidiary of an entity incorporated, established or registered in such a 
country; or 
iii. An entity substantially controlled through entities incorporated, established 
or registered in such a country; or 
iv. An entity whose beneficial owner is situated in such a country; or 
v. An Indian (or other) agent of such an entity; or 
vi. A natural person who is a citizen of such a country; or 
vii. A consortium where any member of the consortium falls under any of the 
above. 
e. “Beneficial owner” for the purposes of Clause 17.1.d.iv. above will be as defined in 
the referred OM, including subsequent amendments and clarifications thereto. 
f. In support of the above, the Bidder shall be required to submit necessary 
Undertaking, as per Format 7.8/7.8A of the RfS. 
g. Other provisions of the referred OM dated 23.02.2023, except Sl. 17 of the OM, will 
also be applicable for this tender. Any interpretation of the above clauses will be 
made in line with the referred OM, including subsequent amendments and 
clarifications thereto. 
18 Bank Guarantee/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) against Earnest Money 
Deposit (EMD) 
18.1 Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) of INR 4,80,000/MW (Rupees Four Lakh Eighty 
Thousand only per MW) - per Project in the form of Bank Guarantee according to 
Format 7.3A and valid for 12 months from the last date of bid submission, shall be 
submitted by the Bidder along with their bid, failing which the bid shall be summarily 
rejected. The Bank Guarantees towards EMD have to be issued in the name of the 
Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Bidding Consortium. In the event of encashment 
of EMD, the encashed amount shall include all applicable taxes. 
18.2 The Bidder shall furnish the Bank Guarantees towards EMD from any of the 
Scheduled Commercial Banks as listed on the website of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
and amended as on the date of issuance of bank guarantee. Bank Guarantee issued 
by foreign branch of a Scheduled Commercial Bank is to be endorsed by the Indian 
branch of the same bank or State Bank of India (SBI). 
The EMD shall be valid as per the timelines stipulated above. However, shortfall in the 
EMD validity, if any, up to a period of seven (7) days shall be acceptable. Further, an 
additional shortfall only in the following cases shall be acceptable: If the bidder has 
submitted the EMD with validity as per original bid submission date or as per any 
revised submission date, and if the deadline for submission of bids has been extended 
further, the Bid Guarantee shall be acceptable provided, the EMD is valid for more than 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 33 of 138 
 
two months from the actual date of bid submission and the Bidder submits the EMD 
extension for the requisite period within seven days from the date of actual bid 
submission, if required. 
While issuing the physical BGs, the Bidder’s Bank shall also send electronic message 
through secure SFMS (in case of BGs issued from within India) or SWIFT (in case of 
BGs issued from outside India) to NVVN’s Beneficiary Bank as per the details given in 
Format 7.14. 
18.3 NVVN has agreed to accept the EMD in the form of an unconditional and irrevocable 
Bank Guarantee instead of the cash deposit with the clear position intimated to the 
bidder that the EMD Bank Guarantee shall be encashable for being appropriated by 
the NVVN in terms of the guarantee as in the case of appropriation of the cash 
deposit lying with the NVVN. 
18.4 Forfeiture of EMD: 
The BG towards EMD shall be encashed by the NVVN in following cases: 
a. If the bidder withdraws or varies the bid after due date and time of bid submission 
and during the validity of bid; 
b. In case, KSEBL offers to execute the BESPA with the Selected Bidder and if the 
Selected Bidder does not submit the requisite documents as per Clause 22 of the 
RfS or does not execute the BESPA within the stipulated time period; 
c. If after issuance of LoA, it is found that the documents furnished by the bidders as 
part of response to RfS are misleading or misrepresented in any way; 
d. If the bidder fails to furnish required PBG/POI in accordance with Clause 19 of the 
RfS. 
18.5 Payment on Order Instrument (POI): As an alternative to submission of EMD as 
above, the Bidder also has an option to submit a letter of undertaking issued by either 
of the following three organizations, viz. (i) Indian Renewable Development agency 
Limited (IREDA) or (ii) Power Finance Corporation Limited or (iii) REC Limited. This 
Letter of Undertaking shall be issued as “Payment on Order Instrument” (POI), wherein 
the POI issuing organization undertakes to pay in all scenarios under which the EMD 
would be liable to be encashed by the NVVN within the provisions of RfS/BESPA. This 
instrument would have to be furnished as per Format 7.3 C of the RfS, within the 
timelines as per Clause 18.1 above, for the amount and validity period as per those 
Clause 18.1 above. 
The term “Bank Guarantee (BG) towards/ against EMD” occurring in the RfS shall be 
read as “Bank Guarantee (BG)/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) towards/ against 
EMD”. 
18.6 Insurance Surety Bond for Bid Security 
The Bid Security shall, at the Bidder's option, be in the form of an Insurance Surety 
Bond from an Insurer as per guidelines issued by Insurance Regulatory and 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 34 of 138 
 
Development Authority of India (IRDAI). The format of the  Insurance Surety Bond 
shall be in accordance with the form of Insurance Surety Bond towards bid security 
included in the RFS as per Format 7.3D. 
Insurance Surety Bond against Bid Security issued by an Indian Insurance company 
outside India needs to bear stamp duty of appropriate value applicable to the place 
where Insurance Surety Bond is to be submitted. The Insurance Surety Bond may be 
got adjudicated by the NVVN from Collector of Stamps, within 3 months of arrival of 
Insurance Surety Bond in India. Expenses incurred in this regard shall be borne by 
NVVN. 
 
19 Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG)/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) 
19.1 Bidders selected by the NVVN based on this RfS shall submit -Performance Bank 
Guarantee (PBG) for a value @ INR 12,00,000/MW (Rupees Twelve Lakh only per 
MW), to the KSEBL, prior to signing of BESPA. It may be noted that successful  
Bidders shall submit the PBG according to Format 7.3B with a validity period upto (& 
including) the date as on 9 months after the Scheduled Commissioning Date of the 
Project. Upon receipt and successful verification of the total PBG in the acceptable 
format by KSEBL, along with communication from KSEBL to NVVN confirming 
acceptance of the PBG submitted by the successful bidder, and upon receipt of the 
success charge by NVVN from the successful bidder, the BG submitted towards EMD 
shall be returned by NVVN to the successful bidder. 
As an alternative to the above submission of PBG, the BESSD may choose to make a 
payment of the amount corresponding to the PBG, directly to KSEBL. 
19.2 All Performance Bank Guarantees (PBGs) shall be submitted separately for each 
Project. 
Note: The PBGs are required to be submitted in the name of the entity signing the 
BESPA. In case of BESPA being eventually signed with the SPV incorporated/utilized 
by the successful bidder, the PBG may be submitted in the name of the successful 
bidder within the above prescribed deadline, if the bidder chooses to do so, and the 
same shall be replaced by the PBG issued in the name of the SPV, prior to signing of 
BESPA. 
19.3 The BESSD shall furnish the PBG from any of the Scheduled Commercial Banks as 
listed on the website of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and amended as on the date of 
issuance of bank guarantee. Bank Guarantee issued by foreign branch of a 
Scheduled Commercial Bank is to be endorsed by the Indian branch of the same 
bank or State Bank of India (SBI). In case of the Project being implemented through 
an SPV incorporated by the successful bidder, the PBG shall be furnished in the 
name of the SPV, except for the case as indicated in Clause 39.3 of the RfS. 
19.4 The format of the Bank Guarantees prescribed in the Format 7.3 A (EMD) and 7.3 B 
(PBG) shall be strictly adhered to and any deviation from the above Formats shall result 
in rejection of the EMD/ PBG and consequently, the bid. In case of deviations in the 
formats of the Bank Guarantees, the corresponding BESPA shall not be signed. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 35 of 138 
 
19.5 KSEBL has agreed to accept the PBG in the form of an unconditional and irrevocable 
Bank Guarantee instead of the cash deposit with the clear position intimated to the 
bidder that the PBG shall be encashable for being appropriated by the KSEBL in 
terms of the guarantee as in the case of appropriation of the cash deposit lying with 
KSEBL. 
19.6 The selected Bidder for the Project selected based on this RfS is required to sign 
BESPA with KSEBL within the timeline as stipulated in Clause 22 of the RfS. In case, 
KSEBL offers to execute the BESPA with the Selected Bidder and if the Selected Bidder 
does not submit the requisite documents as per Clause 22 of the RfS, or does not 
execute the BESPA within the stipulated time period, then the EMD shall be encashed 
by NVVN on written instructions from KSEBL or Bank Guarantee equivalent to the 
amount of the EMD shall be encashed by KSEBL (i.e. PBG) as liquidated damages 
not amounting to penalty, the selected Project shall stand cancelled and the selected 
Bidder expressly waives off its rights and objections, if any, in that respect.  The 
Liquidated Damages realized shall be passed on to KSEBL. 
19.7 The Bank Guarantees have to be executed on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate 
value as per Stamp Act relevant to the place of execution. 
19.8 All expenditure towards execution of Bank Guarantees such as stamp duty etc. shall 
be borne by the Bidders/BESSDs. Any Bank Guarantee or amendment to be submitted 
as part of the bidding process / contract execution, shall be accepted only when the BG 
issuance message is transmitted by the issuing bank through SFMS (insert SFMS 
details of the KSEBL). 
19.9 In case of Bank Guarantees issued by foreign branch of a Scheduled Commercial 
Bank, the same is to be endorsed by the Indian branch of the same bank or SBI, and 
the endorsing bank would be required to provide the SFMS confirmation. 
19.10 After the bidding process is over, NVVN shall release the Bank Guarantees towards 
EMD of the unsuccessful Bidders within 15 days after the completion of e -Reverse 
Auction. The PBG shall be returned to the BESSD within 9 months from the COD of 
the Project, after taking into account any liquidated damages due to delays in 
commissioning as per Clause 9 and 10 of the RfS. 
20 Consultancy Fee 
20.1 Consultancy Fee: The Selected Bidder shall have to pay INR 1,12,50,000 (Rupees 
One Crore Twelve Lakh Fifty Thousand only) + 18% GST to NVVN towards 
administrative overheads, coordination with State Authorities, State Utilities and others 
expenses. The payment has to be made by the BESSD in the form of DD/ Pay Order/ 
NEFT/ RTGS within 30 days of issuance of LoA  by KSEBL. Any delay in  depositing 
the said amount to the NVVN as mentioned above within the stipulated time shall 
attract late payment charges @18% per annum+18% GST, levied on per day basis, on 
the total Consultancy Fee, till (and including) the date of payment of Consultancy Fee, 
which shall not be later than the date of signing of BESPA. BESPA shall only be 
signed after deposit of the Consultancy Fee to the NVVN and written confirmation of 
the same from NVVN to KSEBL . In case of delay in making full payment of above 
delay charges, the amount paid, if any until the above deadline, along with interest, 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 36 of 138 
 
shall be first reduced from the total amount due towards the delay charges and interest 
amount (i.e. rate of interest as stated above). Further, balance amount to be paid shall 
attract Interest rate @ one-year SBI MCLR rate /annum + 5% (five percent) on pro-rata 
basis. 
20.2 Not Used 
 
21 Integrity Pact (IP) 
Bidders are required to unconditionally accept all the conditions of the "Integrity 
Pact (IP)" as per Attachment titled Integrity Pact to the Bidding Documents 
which has been pre-signed by the NVVN. 
Bidders shall certify their compliance on " Integrity Pact " by accepting the 
following General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of the Tender at e-Tender Portal: 
“Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding 
Document?” 
On Bidder’s acceptance to the above GTE condition, Bidder confirms to have 
read, understood and unconditionally accept & commit to all the contents, terms, 
conditions and undertakings mentioned in the Integrity Pact which has been pre- 
signed by the NVVN and enclosed with the Bidding Documents. Where the 
Joint Venture(s) / Consortium are permitted to participate in the bid pursuant to 
ITB Clause 8.1.2(a), acceptance of above GTE by bidder shall mean that all 
the JV Partner(s)/ Consortium members have read, understood and 
unconditionally accept & commit to all the contents, terms, conditions and 
undertakings mentioned in the Integrity Pact which has been pre-signed by the 
NVVN and enclosed with the Bidding Documents. 
On Acceptance of the above GTE, Integrity Pact shall be considered signed by 
the Bidder / JV Partner(s)/ Consortium members and the same shall come into 
force from the date of submission of bid. 
It may also be noted that subsequent to NVVN’s evaluation of Bids, 
resulting into award of Contract to a particular Bidder, the Integrity Pact 
so submitted shall form an integral part of the Contract. 
 
21 (A) Independent External Monitors (IEM)s 
In respect of this package, the Independent External Monitors (IEMs) would be 
monitoring the bidding process and execution of Contract to oversee 
implementation and effectiveness of the Integrity Pact Program. 
This panel is authorized to examine / consider all references made to it under 
this tender. The bidder(s), in case of any dispute(s) / complaint(s) pertaining to 
this package may raise the issue either with the designated 'Nodal Officer' in 
NVVN or directly with the IEMs address available at NVVN website 
www.nvvn.co.in. 
The Independent External Monitors (IEMs) has the right to access without 
restriction to all Project documentations of the KSEBL including that provided 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 37 of 138 
 
by the Contractor. The Contractor will also grant the IEMs, upon his request 
and demonstration of a valid interest, unrestricted and unconditional access to 
his Project Documentations. The same is applicable to Subcontractors. The 
IEMs are under contractual obligation to treat the information and documents 
of the Bidder/ Contractor/ Sub -Contractors/ JV partners/ Consortium member 
with confidentiality. 
The Nodal Officer for necessary coordination with Independent External 
Monitors shall be as under: 
 
(i)) Concerned Group 
Head in C&M 
: if the issue pertains to 
awarding of Contract by C&M 
(ii) Concerned Head of 
Department 
: if the issue pertains to other 
departments 
(iii) Concerned Head of of 
Department 
: if the issue pertains to 
post- award execution of Contract 
 
22 Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) 
22.1 KSEBL shall enter into Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) with 
Bidders selected based on this RfS. A copy of standard BESPA to be executed 
between KSEBL and the BESSD is available on https:// www.bharat-
electronictender.com (and also in the NVVN’s website. The BESPA will be signed 
within 30 days of issuance of LoAs, if not extended by KSEBL. BESPA will be 
executed between KSEBL and selected bidder or its SPV for the Project. 
22.2 The BESSD shall submit a detailed completion Schedule for the Project within 30 
days from BESPA effective date. Broad details to be captured in the Schedule are the 
land procurement, grid connectivity order, supply and erection status of various 
Project components; financial arrangement/ tie up etc. The BESSD shall also submit 
the progress report to KSEBL in a format acceptable to KSEBL and shall contain 
percentage completion achieved compared with the planned percentage completion 
for each activity on monthly basis, and any such other information as and when 
required by KSEBL. In addition to the above, subsequent to signing of BESPA, the 
BESSD shall be required to submit the monthly Project status on 5th day of every 
calendar month as per Annexure -D of the RfS or any format as provided subsequent 
to signing of BESPA. 
22.3 Note: BESPA will be executed between KSEBL and the BESSD for the total  Project 
Capacity awarded to the Bidder. Delays in meeting the project execution timeline on 
account of changes in the project parameters from the data as submitted in the 
Covering Letter (Format 7.1), shall be at the risk and cost of the Successful Bidder. 
22.4 In case any change in project location by the BESSD during the project construction 
period results in any modification in the connectivity/power evacuation to be taken by 
Buying Entity/ NVVN for charging power, any additional charges/ penalties payable by 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 38 of 138 
 
Buying Entity/ NVVN in this regard shall be borne by the BESSD, unless the change is 
on account of a Force Majeure event. 
22.5 The BESPA shall be valid for a period of 1 6 years from the SCD or date of full 
commissioning of the Project , whichever is later . Any extension of the BESPA period 
beyond the term of the BESPA shall be through mutual agreement between the 
BESSD and KSEBL. BESPA shall be extended for a period upto 5 years at tariff not 
more than 60% of the BESPA tariff and mutually agreed between KSEBL  and 
BESSD, provided the Minimum Dispatchable Energy after 1 5 years and through the 
extended period is more than 70% of the Contracted Capacity as on COD and RtE 
remaining more than 85%, subject to approval of KSERC. 
The extension of BESPA beyond the initial 16 years would be for the part of 
Contracted Capacity as demonstrated after the 1 6-year period. e.g: If the Minimum 
Dispatchable Capacity demonstrated after the 16-year period is 400 MWh at 250MW, 
then the extension of BESPA will be for 80% of the initial Contracted Capacity. A 
maintenance period upto 90 days will be allowed for Battery replacement / other 
maintenance activities, after the 16-year period. 
22.6 The Performance Bank Guarantee to KSEBL as per Clause 19 above and 
Consultancy Fee to NVVN as per Clause 20 above, shall be submitted by the BESSD 
prior to signing of BESPA. Before signing of BESPA between KSEBL and the 
BESSDs, the KSEBL will verify the shareholding of the Project Company along with a 
copy of complete documentary evidence or  certificate from statutory auditor. If at this 
stage it is found that the documents furnished by the BESSDs are false / misleading 
or misrepresented in any way, then the provisions contained in this RfS will be 
applicable. 
22.7 Successful bidders will have to submit the required documents to KSEBL within 15 
days from the issu ance of LoA. In case of delay in submission of documents beyond 
the 15 days as mentioned above, KSEBL shall not be liable for delay in verification of 
documents and subsequent delay in signing of BESPA. Effective Date of the BESPA 
shall be the date as on 30 days from the date of issue of LoA, or the date of signing of 
BESPA, whichever is later (for example, if the date of LoA is 07.02.2026, the Effective 
Date will be 06.03.2026 or date of signing of BESPA, whichever is later). Subsequent 
to expiry of the 30 -day period after the issuance of LoA, in case the KSEBL intimates 
to the  Successful Bidder, a particular date as the date for signing of BESPA, the 
specified date shall become the Effective Date of the BESPA, irrespective of the date 
of signing of BESPA. 
22.8 Not Used 
22.9 The BESSD will be free to replenish the battery capacity from time to time during the 
Term of the BESPA at its cost and expense to meet the performance criteria. However, 
KSEBL will be obligated to off-take capacity only within the performance range as 
specified in the BESPA and at the charges applicable as per the existing agreements. 
Any excess supply will be dealt as per provisions of the BESPA. 
23 Financial Closure or Project Financing Arrangements 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 39 of 138 
 
23.1 The Projects shall achieve Financial Closure within the date as on 06 months after the 
Effective Date of the BESPA (for e.g. if Effective Date is 06.03.2026, the above deadline 
will be 05.09.2026). 
23.2 At the stage of financial closure, the BESSDs shall report 100% tie -up of Financing 
Arrangements for the Projects. In this regard, the BESSD shall submit a certificate/  
necessary documents from all financing agencies regarding the tie -up of 100% of the 
funds indicated for the Project, including arrangements of funds in the form of Equity. 
23.3 Checklist of documents to be submitted at this stage is provided at Annexure -B of the 
RfS. 
23.4 In case of default in achieving above condition as may be applicable within the 
stipulated time, KSEBL shall be entitled to encash PBG and shall remove the Project 
from the list of the selected Projects, unless the delay is on account of factors not  
owing to any action or inaction on the part of the BESSD, or caused due to a Force 
Majeure as per BESPA. An extension can however be considered, on the sole request 
of BESSD, on advance payment of extension charges of INR 1,000/- per day per MW. 
This extension will not have an impact on the obligation of BESSD to achieve 
commissioning by the SCD of the Project. Subsequent to the completion of deadline 
for achieving financial closure, KSEBL shall issue notices to  the BESSD not meeting 
the requirements of Financial Closure as per the RfS deadlines. The notice shall 
provide a period of 7 business days to the respective BESSDs to either furnish the 
necessary documents or make the above -mentioned payment of Rs. 1,000/MW/day. 
In case of non-submission of either-the requisite documents or the necessary amount 
upon expiry of the above-mentioned notice period of 7 days-the KSEBL shall encash 
the PBG of the BESSD and terminate the BESPA for the Project. The amount of Rs. 
1,000/MW/day shall be paid by the BESSDs in advance prior to the commencement 
of the said delay period and shall be calculated based on the period of delay as 
estimated by the BESSD. In case of the BESSD meeting the requirements of 
Financial Closure before the last date of such proposed delay period, the remaining 
amount deposited by the BESSD shall be returned by the KSEBL. Interest on account 
of delay in deposition of the above-mentioned charges or on any subsequent extension 
sought, shall be levied @ one-year SBI MCLR rate /annum + 5% (five percent) on pro-
rata basis. Any extension charges paid so, shall be returned to the BESSD without any 
interest on achievement of successful commissioning within the SCD, on pro -rata 
basis, based on the project capacity commissioned as on SCD. 
23.5 The BESSD will have to submit the required documents to the KSEBL at least 14 
days prior to the scheduled Financial Closure date. In case of delay in submission of 
documents mentioned above, KSEBL shall not be liable for delay in verification of 
documents and subsequent delay in Financial Closure. 
24 Land Arrangements for the Project 
24.1 Land identification and possession shall be in line with Clause 6 of the RfS. 
24.2 The above land area will be given to the BESSD for Right of Use (ROU) within 60 days 
from Effective Date of the BESPA. In case of any delay in signing of ROU agreement of 
land to the BESSD, the Financial Closure and Commissioning milestones will be 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 40 of 138 
 
suitably extended, provided that the delay is not due to any action/ inaction on part of 
the BESSD. 
24.3 The BESSD shall submit documents/Lease Agreements to establish possession/right 
to use for at least 90% of the required land area at the time of financial closure in the 
name of the BESSD for a period not less than the complete term of the BESPA. 
24.4 The With respect to signing of ROU agreement for the required land to set up BESS by 
the BESSD, commissioning of the Project will not be allowed until submission of land 
agreement by the BESSD in terms of the Clauses 6 & 7 of the RfS except when the 
delay in signing of ROU is on account of KSEBL. The above land area will be given to 
the BESSD for Right of Use (ROU) within 60 days from Effective Date of the BESPA. In 
case of any delay in signing of ROU agreement of land to the BESSD, the Financial 
Closure and Commissioning milestones will be suitably extended provided that the 
delay is not due to any action/ inaction on part of the BESSD. The RoU agreement 
shall be co-terminus and co-extensible with the BESPA period. 
24.5 However, in case of delays in signing of ROU by the BESSD on account of 
Government / KSEBL delay (including but not limited to delay in land use pattern 
change, and/or relaxation under respective State land ceiling Act, and/or land lease 
permission from State Government/Authorities) or delay caused due to a Force 
Majeure as per BESPA, SCD shall be suitably extended. 
24.6 The BESSD is free to setup the project in self -identified land owned by the BESSD or 
through suitable Right of Use agreement. The RoU agreement shall have clear RoU 
period for not less than 20 years from the effective date of BESPA and shall be 
extended prior to extension of BESPA period for 5 years. The performance parameters 
shall be as specified in this RfS at the interconnecting point at Brahmapuram 220 kV 
SubStation. 
25 Commercial Operation Date (COD) 
In case of part commissioning, Commercial Operation Date (COD) will be declared only 
for that part of Project Capacity. COD shall be the next day after the date of 
commissioning of the Project, as indicated on the Commissioning Certificate, upon 
successful commissioning of the full capacity of the Project or the last part capacity of 
the Project as the case may be, as declared in line with the commissioning procedure 
as provided in the BESPA. Similarly, for each part commissioning, COD will be the next 
day after actual date of commissioning of the respective part capacity. 
The BESSD shall obtain necessary charging and safety clearances from the concerned 
authorities (STU/ SLDC/ CEIG/ CEA/ State Electrical Inspectorate  etc.) prior to 
commissioning of the Project. The 16-year tenure of BESPA shall be as per the 
provisions of BESPA. Any capacity being offered to the grid before COD shall not be at 
the cost of KSEBL under this RfS, KSEBL may agree to buy this capacity. 
Declaration of COD will be governed by applicable Grid Code provisions, and in case 
of discrepancy between the procedure given in the RfS and that stipulated in the Grid 
Code, the provisions of Grid Code will prevail. 
26 Modifications in Controlling Shareholding 
26.1 The BESSD shall indicate its shareholding in the company indicating the controlling 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 41 of 138 
 
shareholding before signing of BESPA with KSEBL. 
26.2 No change in controlling shareholding of the Bidding Company or Bidding Consortium 
shall be permitted from the date of submission of response to RfS till the execution of 
the BESPA. 
Following shall not be considered as change in shareholding as mentioned above: 
a. Infusion of Fresh equity capital amongst the existing shareholders/promoters at the 
time of Bid Submission to meet equity requirements. 
b. Conversion of CCDs, CCPs etc. already issued to existing shareholders. 
c. Death, marriage, Divorce, minor attaining major (any legal heir who was minor at 
the time of signing of BESPA), insolvent, insane of existing shareholders. 
d. Transfer of shares within the members of Immediate Promoter Group only. 
e. Transfer of shares to IEPF. 
f. Issue of Bonus Shares. 
 
26.3 In case of Project being executed through SPV, the Successful Bidder, if being a single 
company, shall ensure that its shareholding in the SPV/ Project Company executing 
the BESPA, shall not fall below 51% at any time prior to COD of the Project. In the 
event the successful Bidder is a consortium, then the combined shareholding of the 
consortium members in the SPV/ Project Company executing the BESPA, shall not fall 
below 51% at any time prior to COD. However, in case the Project is being set up by a 
listed Company, this condition will not be applicable. 
26.4 In case of the selected Bidder itself executing the BESPA, it shall ensure that controlling 
shareholding of the Bidding Company remains unchanged until the COD. However, in 
case the Project is being set up by a listed Company, this condition will not be 
applicable. 
26.5 In case of companies having multiple promoters (but none of the shareholders having 
more than 50% of voting rights and paid up share capital), it shall be considered as a 
company under joint control. In such cases, the shareholding pattern in the company 
as submitted at the time of bidding, shall be maintained upto the COD. 
26.6 Any change in the shareholding after COD can be undertaken under intimation to the 
KSEBL. 
26.7 In the event of Change in Shareholding/ Substitution of Promoters triggered by the 
Financial Institutions leading to signing of fresh BESPA with a new entity, an amount of 
INR 10 Lakh per Project +18% GST per Transaction as Facilitation Fee (non - 
refundable) shall be deposited by the BESSD to KSEBL. 
27 Instructions to Bidders for Structuring of Bid Proposals in Response to RfS 
The bidder including its Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company shall 
submit single response to RfS. Detailed Instructions to be followed by the bidders for 
online submission of response to RfS are stated at Annexure – C. Submission of bid 
proposals by Bidders in response to RfS shall be in the manner described below: 
a. Covering Letter as per Format 7.1. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 42 of 138 
 
b. In case of a Bidding Consortium, a Power of Attorney in favour of the Lead Member 
issued by the other Members of the Consortium shall be provided in original as per 
format attached hereto as Format 7.2. 
In the event any Member of the Bidding Consortium (other than Lead Member) is a 
foreign entity, it may submit Board Resolutions in place of Power of Attorney for the 
purpose of fulfilling the requirements under this clause. Provided that such Board 
Resolutions shall be supported by an unqualified opinion issued by the legal counsel of 
such foreign entity stating that the Board Resolutions are in compliance with the 
applicable laws of the respective jurisdictions of the issuing Company and the 
authorizations granted therein are true and valid. 
c. Bank Guarantee/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) against Earnest Money Deposit 
(EMD) as per Format 7.3 A/7.3 C. 
d. Board Resolutions, as per prescribed formats enclosed as per Format 7.4 duly certified 
by the Company Secretary or the Director of the relevant Bidder, as applicable to the 
Bidder and mentioned hereunder: 
i. Board Resolution from the Bidding Company or the Lead Member of the Consortium, 
as the case may be, in favour of the person signing the  response to RfS and in the 
event of selection of the Projects and to sign the BESPA with the KSEBL. Board 
Resolution from each of the Consortium Members in favour of the person signing 
Consortium Agreement. 
ii. Board Resolution from the Bidding Company committing 100% (One Hundred 
Percent) of the equity requirement for the Project/ Board Resolutions from each of 
the Consortium Members together in aggregate committing to 100% (One Hundred 
Percent) of equity requirement for the Project (in case of Bidding Consortium); and 
iii. Board Resolutions from each of the Consortium Members and Lead member 
contributing such additional amount over and above the percentage limit (specified 
for the Lead Member and other member in the Consortium Agreement) to the extent 
becoming necessary towards the total equity share in the Project Company, 
obligatory on the part of the Consortium pursuant to the terms and conditions in the 
Consortium Agreement. 
e. In case of a Consortium, the Consortium Agreement between the Members in the 
Consortium as per Format 7.5 along with Board resolution from each Member of the 
Consortium for participating in Consortium. 
f. Format for Financial Requirements as per Format 7.6 along with the certificate from 
Statutory Auditors showing details of computation of the financial credentials of the 
Bidder. 
g. Undertaking as per Format 7.7. 
h. A disclosure statement as per Format 7.8/7.8A regarding participation of any related 
companies in the bidding process. 
i. Format for Technical Criteria as per Format 7.9 (to be filled out separately for each 
Project). 
j. Declaration by the Bidding Company / Lead Member of Bidding Consortium for the 
Proposed Technology Tie Up as per Format 7.10 (to be filled out separately for each 
Project). 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 43 of 138 
 
k. Integrity Pact between the NVVN and the Bidding Company as per Format 7.11. 
l. Attachments 
i. Memorandum of Association, Article of Association needs to be attached along with 
the bid. The bidder should also highlight the relevant provision which highlights the 
objects relating to Power/ Energy/ Renewable Energy/ Standalone Battery Energy 
Storage System development. 
➢ In case, there is no mention of the above provisions in the MoA/ AoA of the 
bidding company, the same has to be amended and submitted prior to signing 
of BESPA, if the bidder is selected as Successful bidder. 
➢ If the selected bidder wishes to execute the project through a Special Purpose 
Vehicle (SPV), the MoA/ AoA of the SPV highlighting the relevant provision 
which highlights the objects relating to Power/ Energy/ Renewable Energy/ Solar 
Power plant development has to be submitted prior to signing of BESPA. 
ii. Certificate of Incorporation of Bidding Company/ all member companies of Bidding 
Consortium. In case of AIF, registration certificate issued by SEBI would be 
required. 
iii. A certificate of shareholding of the bidding company, its Parent and Ultimate Parent 
(if any) duly certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant/ Company Secretary as 
on a date within 30 days prior to the last date of bid submission. NVVN reserves 
the right to seek additional information relating to shareholding in promoter 
companies, their parents/ ultimate parents and other group companies to satisfy 
themselves that RfS conditions have been complied with and the bidder will ensure 
submission of the same within the required time lines. 
iv. Certified copies of annual audited accounts for the last financial year, i.e. FY 2024- 
25/2023-24, or provisional audited accounts duly certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant (as applicable), along with certified copies of Balance Sheet, Profit & 
Loss Account, Schedules and Cash Flow Statement supported with bank 
statements as on the date at least 7 days prior to the due date of bid submission 
(if applicable), shall be required to be submitted. 
v. Details of all types of securities/instruments which are pending conversion into 
equity whether optionally or mandatorily. 
 
m. Covering letter of the Financial bid as per Format - 7.12. 
n. Break-up of the Preliminary Estimate of Cost of Project as per Format 7.13 (separately 
for each Project). 
28 Important Notes and Instructions to Bidders 
28.1 Wherever information has been sought in specified formats, the Bidders shall fill in the 
details as per the prescribed formats and shall refrain from any deviations and referring 
to any other document for providing any information required in the prescribed format. 
28.2 The Bidders shall be shortlisted based on the declarations made by them in relevant 
schedules of RfS. The documents submitted online will be verified before signing of 
BESPA in terms of Clause 22 of the RfS. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 44 of 138 
 
28.3 If the Bidder/Member in a Bidding Consortium conceals any material information or 
makes a wrong statement or misrepresents facts or makes a misleading statement in 
its response to RfS, in any manner whatsoever, NVVN reserves the right to reject such 
response to RfS and/or cancel the Letter of Award, if issued, and the Bank 
Guarantee/POI provided up to that stage shall be encashed. Bidder shall be solely 
responsible for disqualification based on their declaration in the submission of response 
to RfS. 
28.4 If the event specified at 28.3 is discovered after the Effective Date of BESPA, 
consequences specified in BESPA shall apply. 
28.5 Response submitted by the Bidder shall become the property of the NVVN and NVVN 
shall have no obligation to return the same to the Bidder. However, the EMDs submitted 
by unsuccessful Bidders shall be returned as specified in Clause 19 of the RfS. 
28.6 All documents of the response to RfS (including RfS and subsequent Amendments/ 
Clarifications/ Addenda and BESPA) submitted online must be digitally signed by the 
person authorized by the Board as per Format 7.4. 
28.7 The response to RfS shall be submitted as mentioned in Clause 27 of the RfS. No 
change or supplemental information to a response to RfS will be accepted after the 
scheduled date and time of submission of response to RfS. However, NVVN reserves 
the right to seek additional information from the Bidders, if found necessary, during the 
course of evaluation of the response to RfS. 
28.8 Bidder to familiarize themselves with Bharat ETS portal. 
28.9 All the information should be submitted in English language only. In case of foreign 
bidders having documents in other than English language, then the documents shall 
be translated in English language by certified translator and submitted. 
28.10 Bidders shall mention the name of the contact person and complete address and 
contact details of the Bidder in the covering letter. 
28.11 Response to RfS that are incomplete, which do not substantially meet the requirements 
prescribed in this RfS, will be liable for rejection by NVVN. 
28.12 Response to RfS not submitted in the specified formats will be liable for rejection by the 
NVVN. 
28.13 Bidders delaying in submission of additional information or clarifications sought will be 
liable for rejection. 
28.14 Non-submission and/ or submission of incomplete data/ information required under the 
provisions of RfS shall not be construed as waiver on the part of the NVVN of the 
obligation of the Bidder to furnish the said data/ information unless the waiver is in 
writing. 
28.15 The Kerala State Electricity  Regulatory Commission shall be the appropriate 
commission to exercise the regulatory and adjudicatory jurisdiction in regard to 
matters between BESSD  and KSEBL. Subject to the above, only Kerala High Court, 
Ernakulam shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all matters pertaining to this RfS  and 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 45 of 138 
 
KSEBL. 
28.16 All the financial transactions to be made with the NVVN or KSEBL including 
consultancy fee (with NVVN), delay charges (with KSEBL except charges for delay in 
Financial Closure), and any additional charges (if required), shall attract 18% GST on 
each transaction, irrespective of the same being mentioned in the RfS/BESPA. 
29 Non-Responsive Bid 
The electronic response to RfS submitted by the bidder along with the documents 
submitted online to the NVVN shall be scrutinized to establish “Responsiveness of the 
bid”. Each bidder’s response to RfS shall be checked for compliance with the submission 
requirements set forth in this RfS. 
Any of the following conditions shall cause the Bid to be “Non-responsive”: 
(a) Non-submission of the requisite Cost of RfS and/ or Processing Fee as mentioned 
in the Bid Information Sheet. 
(b) Response to RfS not received by the due date and time of bid submission. 
(c) Non-submission of correct, valid and operative Pass-Phrases for both Technical 
and Financial Bid (Price Bid) Parts after the deadline of Bid Submission, and 
before the commencement of the Online Tender Opening Event (TOE) of 
Technical Bid. 
(d) Any indication of tariff in any part of response to the RfS, other than in the financial 
bid. 
(e) Data filled in the Electronic Form of Financial Bid (Second Envelope), not in line with 
the instructions mentioned in the same electronic form. 
(f) Except for the scenario as per Clause 5.1 above, in case it is found that the Bidding 
Company including Ultimate Parent Company/ Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Group 
Companies have submitted more than one response to this RfS, then all these bids 
submitted shall be treated as non-responsive and rejected. 
(g) Non-submission or partial submission of EMD in acceptable form along with 
response to RfS. 
 
In any of the above cases, the bid shall not be considered for bid opening and evaluation 
process. 
30 Method of Submission of Response to RfS by the Bidder 
30.1 The bidder has to submit original of following documents offline: 
a. Bank Guarantee/ Payment on Order Instrument towards EMD as mentioned in the Bid 
Information Sheet (as per Format 7.3A/ 7.3 C). One EMD may be submitted for the 
cumulative capacity quoted by the bidder, or individual EMDs may be submitted for 
each Project. 
b. (Any documentation required as part of submission of bid on the bidding portal decided 
by the NVVN). 
 
No documents will be accepted in person, on or before the date of bid submission. 
Bank Guarantee/POI against EMD needs to be submitted in both online and offline 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 46 of 138 
 
modes. The bidders will be required to submit the bank guarantee, either in person or 
through post, at the office of NVVN until the date as on 2 working days after the closing 
date of bid submission. The 2 -day duration will be counted from the date of bid 
submission. 
For e.g., if the bid submission deadline is 18:00 hrs on 22.10.2025, the above deadline 
will expire at 18:00 hrs on 24.10.2025. In case of the above deadline being a holiday, the 
next working day in NVVN will be the deadline for submission of Bank Guarantees. 
Note: In all cases, the Bank Guarantee/POI against EMD (if applicable), shall be issued 
on or before the bid submission deadline. These instruments issued after the expiry of 
the deadline will be summarily rejected. 
The bidding envelope shall contain the following sticker: 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of  MW/ MWh Standalone Battery Energy Storage 
Systems in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based Global Competitive Bidding 
Procurement under tariff-based global competitive bidding Request for 
Selection (RFS) document for setting up of 250 MW/500 MWh STU connected 
standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the state of Kerala 
with Viability Gap Funding (VGF) Support 
Cumulative Capacity of the 
projects applied for 
 
 MW/ MWh 
No. of Projects Bid for  
RfS Reference No.  dated:   
Submitted by (Enter Full name and address of the Bidder) 
 
Authorized Signatory 
(Signature of the Authorized Signatory) 
(Name of the Authorized Signatory) 
(Stamp of the Bidder) 
Bid Submitted to NVVN Limited, 5th Floor EOC Building, 
NTPC Limited, A-8A, Sector 24, Noida 201301 
 
30.2 Documents to be Submitted Online 
Detailed instructions to be followed by the Bidders for online submission of response to 
RfS as stated as Annexure-C. The bidders shall strictly follow the instructions mentioned 
in the electronic form in respective technical bid and financial bid while filling the form. 
If the Bidder has submitted bid online and fails to submit the Bank Guarantee for 
requisite amount offline within 2 working days from last date of bid submission, 
then the same shall be treated as incomplete bid and Cost of RfS, Processing fee 
submitted at this stage will be encashed, the EMD(s) shall be returned and the 
submitted bid will stand cancelled and the respective bidder will be debarred from 
participating in any of the tenders issued by NVVN, for a period of 6 (six) months, 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 47 of 138 
 
starting from the last date of bid submission of this RfS 
 
All documents of the response to RfS submitted online must be digitally signed and 
uploaded on the website, https:// www.bharat-electronictender.com. Response to RfS 
shall contain the following: 
I. Technical Bid (First Envelope) 
 
The Bidder shall upload single technical bid containing scanned copies of the 
following documents duly signed and stamped on each page by the authorized 
signatory as mentioned below. 
(a) Formats - 7.1, 7.2 (if applicable), 7.3 A, 7.4, 7.5 (if applicable), 7.6, 7.7, 7.8/7.8A, 
7.9, 7.10 and 7.11 as elaborated in Clause 27 of the RfS. 
(b) All attachments elaborated in Clause 27 of the RfS, under the sub -clause k: 
Attachments, with proper file names. 
(c) All supporting documents regarding meeting the eligibility criteria. 
(d) Scanned Copies of NEFT/RTGS details towards Cost of RfS Document and Bid 
Processing Fee as mentioned in Bid Information Sheet. 
(e) Scanned Copies of requisite amount of Bank Guarantee/Payment on Order 
Instrument towards EMD as mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet. 
The Bidder will have to fill the Electronic Form provided at the Bharat ETS 
portal as part of Technical Bid. 
 
II. Financial Bid (Second Envelope) 
 
Bidders shall submit the single Financial Bid containing the scanned copy of following 
document(s): 
(a) Covering letter as per Format - 7.12 of the RfS 
(b) Preliminary Estimate of Cost of the Project as per Format 7.13 of the RfS 
 
Only a single capacity charge (INR/MW/MONTH) for all the Projects applied for, 
shall have to be filled online in the Electronic Form provided at the ISN - ETS 
portal. The instructions mentioned in the Financial Bid Electronic Form have to 
be strictly followed without any deviation, else the bid shall be considered as 
non- responsive. 
 
Important Note: 
(a) The Bidders shall not deviate from the naming and the numbering formats of 
envelops mentioned above, in any manner. 
(b) In each of the envelopes (as part of online bid submission), all the documents 
enclosed shall be indexed and flagged appropriately, with the index list indicating 
the name of the document against each flag. 
(c) All the envelopes shall be properly sealed with the signature of the Authorized 
Signatory running across the sealing of the envelopes. 
(d) In case the Bidder submits the online documents on https://www.bharat- 
electronictender.com within the bid submission deadlines and fails to submit the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 48 of 138 
 
250 MW/ 500 MWh STU-Connected Battery Energy Storage System 
Project Installed and operated by 
- -------------------- (insert name of the BESSD) 
[Under RfS for Procurement of 250 MW /500 MWh Battery Energy Storage 
Systems under Tariff-based Global Competitive Bidding in Kerala under PSDF 
Kerala State Electricity Board Limited 
Component of VFG scheme by 
Date of Commencement of Work: 
 Proposed date for Completion: 
offline documents in the office of NVVN within the bid submission deadlines, the 
online bid of the Bidder shall not be opened and shall be ‘archived (to be replaced 
with a suitable word based on the bidding portal)’ on the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com. Similarly, bids 
submitted offline but without any online submission on https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com shall not be opened and the EMD shall be returned to the 
respective Bidder. 
(e) In case of submission of Bank Guarantee against EMD online on or before 
the bid submission deadline, and non -submission of the hard copy of the 
Bank Guarantee to NVVN within the date as on 2 working days subsequent 
to bid submission deadline, then the same shall be treated as incomplete 
bid and Cost of RfS, Processing fee submitted at this stage will be 
encashed, the EMD(s) shall be returned and the submitted bid will stand 
cancelled and the respective bidder will be debarred from 
participating in any of the tenders issued by NVVN, for a period of 6 (six) 
months, starting from the last date of bid submission of this RfS. 
(f) The tariff to be quoted in the Financial Bid shall be exclusive of GST (for providing 
the storage service). GST levied on the storage service being provided by the 
Project, if any, shall be passed through to the NVVN. 
 
31 Notice Board for Display 
The BESSD will have to put a notice board (at least 180 cm x 120 cm) at its project site 
main entrance prominently displaying the following message before declaration of COD. 
 
 
 
 
32 Validity of the Response to RfS 
The Bidder shall submit the response to RfS which shall remain valid up to the date as 
on 12 months from the last date of submission of response to RfS (“Bid Validity”). 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 49 of 138 
 
NVVN reserves the right to reject any response to RfS which does not meet the 
aforementioned validity requirement. 
33 Bid Preparation Cost 
The Bidder shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation of the 
response to RfS and participation in discussions and attending pre -bid meeting(s) etc. 
NVVN shall not be responsible in any way for such costs, regardless of the conduct or 
outcome of the bid process. 
34 Clarifications/ Pre-Bid Meeting/ Enquiries/ Amendments 
34.1 Clarifications/ Doubts, if any, on RfS document may be emailed and/ or through 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com. The format for submission of clarifications is 
available on the portal. 
34.2 NVVN will make effort to respond to the same in the Pre -Bid Meeting to be held as 
mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet. A compiled list of such questionnaire and the 
NVVN’s response will be uploaded in the https:// www.bharat-electronictender.com. If 
necessary, amendments, clarifications, elaborations shall be issued by the NVVN which 
will be notified on the NVVN/ https:// www.bharat-electronictender.com. No separate 
reply/ intimation will be given for the above, elsewhere. In the event of the issuance of 
any revision or  amendment of the RfS  documents, the  Bidders shall be  provided a 
period of at least 7 days therefrom, for submission of bids.  No clarifications will be 
issued subsequent to bid submission deadline.  Post issuance of any amendments, 
Bidders shall be allowed a period of three (03) working days for seeking clarifications, 
after which no query or clarification shall be entertained. 
 
34.3 A Pre-Bid Meeting shall be held as mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet (Venue to be 
notified later on the NVVN’s website). 
34.4 Enquiries/ Clarifications may be sought by the Bidder by contacting the NVVN’s officials 
as per the details contained in the Bid Information Sheet. 
35 Right of the NVVN to Reject a Bid 
NVVN reserves the right to reject any or all of the responses to RfS or cancel the RfS 
or annul the bidding process for any project at any stage without assigning any reasons 
whatsoever and without thereby any liability. In the event of the tender being cancelled 
at any stage, the processing fee (excluding GST, if amount credited to the NVVN’s 
account), without any interests, shall be returned to the respective Bidders. 
36 Post Award Compliances 
36.1 Timely completion of all the milestones i.e. signing of BESPA, meeting Financial Closure 
Requirements/Conditions Subsequent (BESPA), Commissioning etc. will be the sole 
responsibility of BESSD. KSEBL shall not be liable for issuing any intimations/ reminders 
to BESSDs for timely completion of milestones and/ or submission of compliance 
documents. 
36.2 Any checklist shared with BESSD by NVVN for compliance of above mentioned 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 50 of 138 
 
milestones to be considered for the purpose of facilitation only. Any additional documents 
required as per the conditions of Guidelines, RfS and BESPA must be timely submitted 
by the BESSD. 
36.3 Tentative timelines of various activities to be carried out under this RfS are summarized 
as follows: 
 
Activity Duration 
Date of issuance of RfS Zero Date (A) 
Date of pre-bid meeting A+12 days 
Bid submission deadline A+31 days (=B) 
Issuance of LoAs B+45 days (=C) 
Effective Date of BESPAs C+ 30 days (=D) 
Application for connectivity by the BESSD D+30 days 
Financial Closure D+06 months 
Release of 1st tranche of VGF on financial 
closure subject to submission of BG and 
proof of possession of 90% of the total 
land. 
D+06 months (upon fulfilment of FC) 
Project commissioning D+18 months (=E) 
Release of 2nd tranche of VGF D+18 months (upon achieving COD) 
Release of 3rd tranche of VGF E+1 year 
 
36.4 Project monitoring activities under the RfS shall include periodic Project site visits by 
Appropriate Central Government Organizations/Authority/Committee(s) authorized from 
time to time. 
36.5 Under this RfS, it is proposed to promote only commercially established and operational 
technologies to minimize the technology risk and to achieve timely commissioning of the 
Projects. Further, the BESSD shall ensure that  the BESS installed is of requisite 
quality as per best industry practices and  refurbished battery cells are not used 
in the project. BESS shall also ensure that the application software of the Energy 
Management System (EMS) of the BESS shall be developed indigenously within 
India. The Bidder may indicate regarding the selection of technology and its details  at 
the time of submission of bids in the prescribed Format 7.10 of the RfS. The technology 
proposed at the time of submission of response to RfS can be changed at the time of 
Financial Closure. 
36.6 The Bidder is required to undertake to furnish evidence of meeting the above criteria in 
line with provisions of Clause 23 of the RfS. The undertaking shall be submitted as per 
enclosed Format 7.9 of the RfS. 
36.7 The Projects shall also comply with the performance criteria as detailed in Clause 8 of 
the RfS. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 51 of 138 
 
QUALIFICATION REQUIRMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
Bidders participating in the RfS should meet the qualifying requirements stipulated under clause 
37.1 (i) or 37.1(ii) or 37.1 (iii) or 37.1(iv) and 37.2, 37.3 & 37.4 as applicable.  In addition, the 
Bidder should also meet the requirements stipulated under clause 39.0 together with the 
requirements stipulated in RFS. 
37 General Eligibility Criteria 
37.1 The Bidder must fall under either of the following categories: 
i. A Company under the Companies Act, 2013. 
ii. A Foreign Company under the respective nation’s laws. 
iii. Alternative Investment Funds (AIF) as registered under SEBI. “AIF” shall be as 
defined by SEBI. 
iv. A Consortium comprising the above entities. 
The above would be subject to the relevant Acts, Rules, Guidelines, Orders and Policy 
documents of the Government of India as amended from time to time. 
37.2 In case a foreign company i.e. the bidder under clause 37.1 (ii), is participating on 
standalone basis and it is selected as successful Bidder, it has to form a “Special Purpose 
Vehicle” (SPV), i.e. an Indian Company registered under the Companies Act, 2013 as its 
subsidiary Company, with at least 51% shareholding in the SPV, before signing of BESPA 
and it shall comply with all the laws and provisions related to Foreign Direct Investment in 
India. 
In case the foreign company is participating as a member of consortium, Clause 37.4 of the 
QR shall also be applicable. 
37.3 A Consortium i.e. bidder participating under clause 37.1 (iv), shall participate with one of 
the consortium partners as the Lead Member. The consortium shortlisted and selected 
against this RfS has  to necessarily form a Project Company  and get it registered  under 
the Companies Act, 2013 prior to signing of Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement 
(“BESPA”), keeping the original shareholding of the Bidding Consortium unchanged.  In 
case applications for multiple Projects have been made by a Consortium, separate Project 
Companies can be formed for each Project. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby clarified 
that the shareholding pattern of the Project Company shall be identical to the 
shareholding pattern of the Consortium. 
37.4 A consortium i.e. bidder participating under clause 37.1 (iv), selected as Successful 
Bidder for the purpose of implementing the Project, shall incorporate a Project company 
before signing of BESPA with the Buying Entity (KSEBL) with equity participation by the 
Members in line with consortium agreement submitted with the bid  i.e. the Project 
Company incorporated shall have the same shareholding pattern as that indicated in the 
Consortium Agreement given at the time of submission of response to RfS. This shall not 
change till the signing of BESPA and the Controlling Shareholding (Lead Member holding  
not less than 51% of the voting rights and paid -up share capital) shall not change from 
submission deadline of response  to RfS up to Commercial Operation Date (COD) of the 
Project. Transfer of controlling shareholding within the same group of companies will 
however be allowed prior to COD with the permission of  KSEBL, subject to the condition 
that, the management control remains within the same group of companies. 
Note for Clause 37.0 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 52 of 138 
 
a) Limited Liability Partnership (LLPs) are not eligible for participation. 
b) A Bidder which has been selected as Successful Bidder based on this RfS can also 
execute the Project through a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) i.e. a Project 
Company especially incorporated/acquired as a subsidiary Company of the 
successful bidder for setting up of the Project, with at least 51% shareholding in the  
SPV which has to be registered under the Indian Companies Act, 2013, before 
signing of BESPA. Multiple SPVs may also be utilized for executing more than one 
Project. 
c) The Bidder or any of its Affiliates should not be a willful defaulter to any lender. 
Further, the Bidder & any of its Affiliate including any Consortium Member & any of its 
Affiliate, their directors, should not have been barred or included in the blacklist by 
any government agency or authority in India, the government of the jurisdiction of the 
Bidder or Members where they are incorporated or the jurisdiction of their principal  
place of business, any international financial institution such as the World Bank  
Group, Asian Development Bank, African Development Bank, Inter-American 
Development Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank etc. or the United Nations  
or any of its agencies. The Bidder shall submit an undertaking to this effect. 
 
38 Not Used 
 
39 Financial Eligibility Criteria 
39.1 Net-Worth/ Asset Under Management (AUM) or Investible Funds 
a) The Net Worth of the Bidder should be equal to or greater than INR 48,00,000 /MW of 
the quoted capacity in MW (i.e. INR 24,00,000 / MWH of the MWH capacity), as on the 
last day of the preceding financial year on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening. 
For e.g., for a 500 MWh ( 250 MW x 2 hrs) Project Capacity, the minimum Net Worth 
requirement to be demonstrated shall be Rs. 48 lakh x 250 MW = Rs. 1,20,00,00,000. 
In case of the Bidder being a SEBI registered AIF, the cumulative value of Assets 
Under Management (AUM) with minimum requirement as per above shall be 
demonstrated. In this context, AUM shall mean the amount as certified by the Statutory 
Auditor of the AIF. 
b) The net -worth/value of AUM to be considered for the above purpose will be the 
cumulative net-worth of the Bidder/AIF or consortium members. Except in  the case of 
AIFs, the Bidder may seek qualification on the basis of financial capability of its 
Affiliate(s) for the purpose of meeting the Net Worth criteria as per the RfS. In case of 
the Bidder being a Bidding Consortium, any Member may meet the above criteria on the 
basis of financial capability of its Affiliate(s). In both cases, such Affiliates shall 
undertake to contribute the required equity funding and performance bank guarantees 
in case the bidder(s) fail to do so in accordance with the RfS. 
c) Net Worth to be considered for this clause shall be the total Net Worth as calculated in 
accordance with the Companies Act, 2013. AUM or investible funds to be considered  
under this clause will be  calculated in accordance with applicable SEBI (AIF) 
Regulations. 
 
39.2 Liquidity 
In order to ascertain that the Bidder has sufficient means to manage the fund 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 53 of 138 
 
requirements for the Project, the Bidder shall be required to demonstrate the following 
parameter: 
a) A minimum annual turnover of INR 1,60,00,000 / MW of the quoted capacity in MW (i.e. 
INR 80,00,000 / MWH of the MWH capacity), in the preceding financial year as on the 
date of techno -commercial bid opening. It is hereby clarified that “Other Income” as 
indicated in the annual accounts of the Bidder shall not be considered for arriving at the 
annual turnover.  
39.3 Except for AIFs, the Bidder may seek qualification on the basis of financial capability of its 
Affiliate(s) for the purpose of meeting the qualification requirements as per Clauses  39.1 
and 39.2 above. In case of the Bidder being a Bidding Consortium, any Member (except 
an AIF) may seek qualification on the basis of financial capability of its Affiliate(s). In such 
cases, the Bidder shall be required to submit Board Resolutions from the respective 
Affiliate(s), undertaking to contribute the required equity funding and Performance Bank 
Guarantees/POI in case the Bidder(s) fail to do so in accordance with the RfS. In case of 
non-availability of the Board Resolution as required above, a letter from the CEO/ 
Managing Director of the respective Affiliate(s), undertaking the above, shall be required to 
be submitted and the requisite Board Resolution from the Affiliate(s) shall be required to be 
submitted prior to signing of BESPA. 
 
"Note: In case bidder is seeking qualification on the basis of financial capability of its 
Affiliate(s) for the purpose of meeting the qualification requirements, only standalone 
Financial Statement of Affiliate(s) would be considered." 
 
39.4 For the purposes of meeting financial requirements, only  latest unconsolidated audited 
annual accounts  shall be used. However, audited  consolidated annual accounts of the 
Bidder may be used for the purpose of financial requirements, provided the Bidder has at 
least twenty six percent (26%) equity in each Company whose accounts are merged in the 
audited consolidated account. 
39.5 A Company/Consortium would be required to submit annual audited accounts for the last 
financial year as on last date of bid submission, along with net worth, annual turnover and  
PBDIT certificate (as applicable) from a practicing Chartered Accountant/ Statutory Auditor 
to demonstrate fulfillment of the criteria. In case of foreign companies, the Bidders shall be 
required to submit the annual audited accounts for the last three respective  financial year 
as per the general norm in the country where the Bidder or its Affiliate(s) is/ are located, or 
provisional accounts in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of techno -
commercial bid opening. 
 
Note: In case of foreign Bidders, in the event the Bidder is unable to furnish the audited  
annual accounts for the previous financial year as per the prevalent norm in the respective 
country, the Bidder shall submit the annual audited accounts of the last financial year for 
which the audited accounts are available. This, however, would be acceptable, subject to 
the condition that the last date of response to this RfS falls on or within the deadline for 
completion of audit of annual accounts of companies, as stipulated by the laws/rules of the 
respective country, and the Bidder shall submit the corresponding documentary evidence 
against the same. In case the annual accounts or provisional accounts as on the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening, are submitted in a  language other than English, a certified 
English translation from an approved translator shall be required to be submitted by the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 54 of 138 
 
Bidder. 
39.6 For meeting the above financial eligibility criteria, if the data is provided by the Bidder in a 
foreign currency, equivalent Indian Rupees of Net Worth and other financial parameters 
will be calculated by the Bidder using Reserve Bank of India’s reference rates prevailing on 
the date of closing of the accounts for the respective financial year. 
39.7 In case of any currency for which RBI reference rate is not available, Bidders shall convert 
such currency into USD as per the exchange rates certified by their banker prevailing on 
the relevant date and used for such conversion. After such conversion, the Bidder shall 
follow the procedure/ submit document as elaborated in Clause 39.6 above. 
39.8 In case the bidder has participated under Clause 39.1 (iv) i.e. Consortium, then the 
financial requirement (both the Net -Worth and Liquidity requirements) to be met by each 
Member of the Consortium shall be computed in proportion to the equity commitment 
made by each of them in the Project Company. For example, if two companies A and B 
form a Consortium with equity participation in 70:30 ratio and submit their bid for a capacity 
of 500 MWh (250 MW x 2 hrs), then, total Net -Worth to be met by the Consortium is Rs. 
48.00 Lakh x 250 MW = Rs. 120.00 Crores. The minimum requirement of Net-Worth to be 
met by Lead Member A would be minimum Rs. 84.00 Crores and to be met by Consortium 
Member B would be Rs. 36.00 Crores. Similar methodology shall be followed for 
computation of liquidity requirement. 
 
39.9 For the purpose of meeting the technical and financial eligibility criteria, the Bidder may also 
use credentials of those companies having equal to or less than 50% shareholding in the 
bidding company, subject to the following: 
a) The qualification criteria parameters will be met proportionately to the equity contribution of 
the entity whose credentials are being used to meet the requirement. For example, in case of 
Net Worth requirement being Rs 120 Crore and the strength of a company is used which 
owns 30% of the total  shareholding in the bidder, the said company should be able to meet 
up to Rs 36 Crore of the Net Worth. 
b) In case the strength of the company is being used for meeting the eligibility criteria, the 
shareholding pattern of the respective company will be locked-in up to COD of the Project. 
 
General Notes: 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial Bid Opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant/ Statutory Auditor along with net worth, annual turnover and PBDIT 
certificate (as applicable) from a practicing Chartered Accountant/ Statutory Auditor shall be 
considered acceptable. In case the Bidder/ Affiliate(s) is not able to submit the financial 
results certified by practicing Chartered Accountant/ Statutory Auditor, the audited result of 
the financial year preceding the last financial year as on the date of techno -commercial bid 
opening along with net worth, annual turnover and PBDIT certificate (as applicable) for that 
year from a practicing Chartered Accountant/ Statutory Auditor shall be considered for 
evaluating financial parameters. 
 
Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the company for the last financial 
year as on date of Techno Commercial Bid  Opening are under audit and the Certificate 
from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 55 of 138 
 
In case, the Bidder is seeking qualification on the basis of financial capability of Affiliate(s) 
as per Clause 39.3, a  certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO of the such 
Affiliate(s) as per the format enclosed in the bidding  documents stating that the financial 
results of the company for the last financial year as on date of Techno Commercial Bid 
Opening are under audit and the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 56 of 138 
 
SECTION 4. BID EVALUATION AND SELECTION OF PROJECTS 
40 Bid Evaluation 
Bid evaluation will be carried out considering the information furnished by Bidders as per provisions 
of this RfS. The detailed evaluation procedure and selection of bidders are described in subsequent 
clauses in this Section. 
41 Techno-Commercial Evaluation of Bidders (Step 1) 
41.1 The first envelope (Technical Bid submitted online) of only those bidders will be opened by NVVN 
whose required documents as mentioned at Clause 30 of the RfS are received by the NVVN. Bid 
opening (online) will be done only after the deadline for submission of Bank Guarantee (if 
applicable) and/or DDs/Pay order against Cost of RfS document and Bid Processing Fee. 
For e.g., if the bid submission deadline is 18:00 hrs on 05.11.2025, the online bid opening will be 
conducted on 06.11.2025. In case of the above deadline being a holiday, the bids will be opened on 
the next working day. 
41.2 Subject to Clause 29 of the RfS, NVVN will examine all the documents submitted by the Bidders 
and ascertain meeting of eligibility conditions prescribed in the RfS. During the examination of the 
bids, NVVN may seek clarifications/additional documents to the documents submitted etc. from 
the Bidders if required to satisfy themselves for meeting the eligibility conditions by the Bidders. 
Bidders shall be required to respond to any clarifications/additional documents sought by the 
NVVN within 07 (seven) days from the date of such intimation from the NVVN. All correspondence 
in this regard shall be made through email / (https://www.bharat-electronictender.com) only. It shall 
be the responsibility of the Bidder to ensure that the email id of the authorized signatory of the 
Bidder is functional. The Bidder may provide an additional email id of the authorized signatory in the 
covering letter. No reminders in this case shall be sent. It shall be the sole responsibility of the 
Bidders to remove  all the discrepancies and furnish additional documents as requested. NVVN 
shall not be responsible for rejection of any bid on account of the above. 
41.3 The response to RfS submitted by the Bidder shall be scrutinized to establish Techno-Commercial 
eligibility as per the RfS. 
42 Financial Bid Evaluation (Step 2) 
42.1 In this step evaluations of Techno-Commercially Qualified Bids shall be done based on the capacity 
charges, or the “First Round Tariff”, quoted by the Bidder in the Financial Bid. After this step, the 
shortlisted bidders shall be invited for the Reverse Auction. The “tariff” in this section, will refer 
to the capacity charges quoted by the bidders. 
42.2 Second Envelope (containing First Round Tariff) of only those bidders shall be opened whose 
technical bids are found to be qualified as per the RfS. 
42.3 The Bidder including its Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company will have to 
submit a single bid (single application) quoting a single tariff (capacity charges) in Indian Rupee per 
MW for all  the Projects applied for. The tariff has to be quoted in Indian Rupee per MW per 
month in whole numbers only (no decimal places allowed) . If it is quoted with any decimal 
places, the digits in the decimal places shall be ignored. (For e.g. if the quoted tariff is INR 
2,25,000.34/MW/month, then it shall be considered as INR 2,25,000/MW/month). 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 57 of 138 
 
42.4 In this step, evaluation will be carried out based on tariff quoted by the Bidders. 
42.5 On completion of Techno -Commercial bid evaluation, if it is found that only one or two Bidder(s) 
is/are eligible for the next stage, opening of the financial bid of the Bidder(s) will be at the discretion 
of NVVN. Thereafter, NVVN will take appropriate action as deemed fit. 
42.6 If the first-round tariff quoted is same for two or more Bidders, then all the Bidders with same tariff 
shall be considered of equal rank/ standing in the order. 
42.7 All Bidders with same tariff shall be eligible for reverse auction round (provided their rank is equal 
to or less than nth Bidder as mentioned in Clause 43.2 of the RfS. 
42.8 Ranking of bidders after Financial Bid Evaluation: Following illustrates an example of ranking of 
bidders after financial bid opening and evaluation 
 
Bidder Submitted Financial Bid Ranking 
B1 ₹ 1,90,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L1 
B2 ₹ 1,92,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L2 
B3 ₹ 1, 93,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L3 
B4 ₹ 1,93,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L3 
B5 ₹ 1,95,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L4 
B6 ₹ 2,11,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L5 
B7 ₹ 2,15,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L6 
B8 ₹ 2,16,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L7 
B9 ₹ 2,20,000 (Tariff in ₹/ 
MW/month) 
L8 
 
43 Reverse Auction (Step 3) 
43.1 The reverse auction for the total tendered capacity shall be conducted on the portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com, on the day as intimated by NVVN to the eligible Bidders. 
43.2 Subsequent to opening of financial bid, Bidder quoting Highest rate (“H1” Bidder) shall be 
eliminated. However, if total number of bidders whose financial bid has been opened is less than 
or equal to 4, no bidder shall be eliminated at this stage.  
 
Note: 
(a) In case more than one bidder is ranked as “H1” bidder, i.e. such bidders are at the same tariff, 
all such bidders will be eliminated at this stage , provided that the remaining number of bidders 
considered for RA after elimination shall be at least 4. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 58 of 138 
 
At least one day prior to reverse auction, an advance intimation regarding the date and time of the 
reverse auction will be sent by e -mail to all the bidders whose technical bids have been opened 
and are found to be qualified. However, from this advance intimation it shall not be construed by 
the bidders that they have been shortlisted for Reverse Auction  Further, at least two hours before 
the scheduled start time of Reverse Auction, a system generated email for invitation for Reverse 
Auction will be sent to all those bidders only who have been shortlisted based on the criteria 
mentioned at Clause 43.2 above. 
43.3 Shortlisted bidders for Reverse Auction will be able to login into the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com of reverse auction 15 minutes before the start time of reverse auction. 
a. During the 15 minutes prior to start of reverse auction process, the respective tariff of the bidder 
shall be displayed on its window. 
b. The minimum decrement value for tariff shall be INR 1000 per MW/month. The Bidder can mention 
its revised discounted tariff which has to be at least Rs. 1000/MW/month less than its current tariff. 
c. Bidders can only quote any value lower than their previous quoted tariff taking into consideration 
the minimum decrement value mentioned in the previous clause. However, at any stage, increase 
in tariff will not be permissible. Bidders can improve their ranking by quoting the tariff lower than 
their last quoted tariff. 
d. During reverse auction, the Bidder shall not have the option of changing the total project capacity 
while quoting tariff during reverse auction. 
e. In the bidder’s bidding window, the following information can be viewed by the bidder: 
i. Its tariff as the initial start price and there after last quoted tariff along with the project capacity 
for which the Bidder is qualified. 
ii. The list of all the Bidders with their following details: Pseudo Identity, last quoted tariff and 
project capacity 
f. The initial auction period will be of 30 (thirty) minutes with a provision of auto extension by 8 (eight) 
minutes from the scheduled/ extended closing time. If any Bidder beats the L1 price in last eight 
minutes of auction period or extended auction period. If no such valid bid which is less than the 
instant L1 bid is received during last eight minutes of auction period or extended auction period, 
then the reverse auction process will get closed. 
 
44 Selection of Successful Bidders 
44.1 Subsequent to conclusion of the e-RA process, the lowest quoting Bidder after reverse auction for 
the Project will be selected as Successful Bidder.  
44.2 Time stamping- In case of a tie among two or more Bidders (i.e. their last quoted tariff being the 
same), they will be considered in the chronological order of their last quoted tariff during the e-RA 
with preference to be given to that Bidder who has quoted his last tariff during the e -RA, earlier 
than others. 
i. In the above case, if the time of quote also becomes exactly same among the Bidders at a tie, 
then the ranking among these Bidders shall be done as follows: 
• Step 1: Highest rank (i.e. L1) will be given to the Bidder who has quoted the lowest in 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 59 of 138 
 
Financial Bid (Electronic Form) and so on. If there is also a tie among any of these bidders, 
then the following step (Step 2) will be followed. 
• Step 2: Ranking will be done based on draw of lots. 
 
45 Issuance of LoAs 
a) At the end of the selection process, a Letter of Award (LoA) will be issued to the successful Bidder 
for the Project. In case of a Consortium being selected as the successful Bidder, the LoA shall be 
issued to the Lead Member of the Consortium. 
b) In case KSEBL is not satisfied with the rates/ tariffs as discovered after the bidding process, 
KSEBL reserve the right to annul the bid process without any financial implications to any of the 
parties concerned. 
c) In all cases, KSEBL’s/ NVVN’s decision regarding selection of Bidder through Reverse Auction or 
other- wise based  on tariff or annulment of tender process shall be final and binding on all 
participating bidders. 
d) The BESPA signing date shall be within one month from the date of issuance of LoA or any other 
extended date as mutually agreed between KSEBL and the successful bidder. In case of delay in 
signing of BESPA beyond 6 months from the date of issuance of LoAs, or any other extended date 
as mutually agreed between KSEBL and the successful bidder, the successful bidder may choose 
to exit from this tender. Accordingly, the LoA issued to the respective Bidder shall stand cancelled. 
e) Adoption of tariff identified through this tender is subjected to approval of Hon’ble KSERC.  In case 
of non-approval from KSERC, no parties shall be liable in any manner. 
 
46 GOVERNING LAW AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
46.1 Governing Law 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of India. Any 
legal proceedings in respect of any matters, claims or disputes  under this Agreement shall be 
under the jurisdiction of appropriate courts in Delhi. 
46.2 Amicable Settlement and Dispute Resolution 
 
46.2.1 Amicable Settlement 
 
i. Either Party is entitled to raise any claim, dispute or difference of whatever nature arising 
under, out of or in connection with this Agreement (“Dispute”) by giving a written notice 
(Dispute Notice) to the other Party, which shall contain: 
(a) a description of the Dispute; 
(b) the grounds for such Dispute; and 
(c) all written material in support of its claim. 
 
 
ii. The other Party shall, within thirty (30) days of issue of Dispute Notice issued under Article 
16.2.1(i), furnish: 
(a) counter-claim and defences, if any, regarding the Dispute; and 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 60 of 138 
 
(b) all written material in support of its defences and counter-claim. 
iii. Within thirty (30) days of issue of Dispute Notice by any Party pursuant to Article 16 
(i) if the other Party does not furnish any counter claim or defence under Article 16 
(ii) or thirty (30) days from the date of furnishing counter claims or defence by the other 
Party, both the Parties to the Dispute shall meet to settle such  Dispute amicably. If the 
Parties fail to resolve the Dispute amicably within thirty (30) days from the later of the 
dates mentioned in this Article 16.2.1. 
(iii) the Dispute shall be referred for dispute resolution in accordance with Article 16.3. 
46.2.2 Dispute Resolution 
Dispute Resolution by the Appropriate Commission 
i) Where any Dispute or  differences arises in  relation to this agreement of  any nature 
whatsoever including the construction, interpretation or implementation  of the provisions of 
this agreement as well as claim made by any Party for any change in or determination of the 
Tariff or any matter related  to Tariff or claims made by any Party which partly or  wholly 
relate to any change in the Tariff or determination of any of such claims could result in  
change in the Tariff, and relates to any matter agreed to be referred to the Appropriate 
Commission, shall be submitted to adjudication by the Appropriate Commission. Appeal 
against the decisions of the Appropriate Commission shall be made only as per the 
provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003, as amended from time to time. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 61 of 138 
 
SECTION 5. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS 
47 Following terms used in the documents will carry the meaning and interpretations as 
described below: 
47.1 "ACT" or "ELECTRICITY ACT, 2003" shall mean the Electricity Act, 2003 and include any 
modifications, amendments and substitution from time to time. 
47.2 “AFFILIATE” shall mean a company that, directly or indirectly, 
i. controls, or 
ii. is controlled by, or 
iii. is under common control with, a company developing a Project or a Member in a Consortium 
developing the Project and control means ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% (fifty 
percent) of the voting shares of such company or right to appoint majority Directors. 
47.3 “APPROPRIATE COMMISSION” shall mean the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission 
and as defined in the BESPA. 
47.4 “AVAILABILITY” shall mean as defined in Clause 8 of the RfS. 
47.5 ““APPC” or “Average Power Purchase Cost” during a year means the weighted average cost 
of the power purchased by KSEB Ltd including the cost of self-generation by KSEB Ltd. 
47.6 “Authorised Representative” of the Procurer: shall mean ‘NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited’ 
or ‘NVVN’ the agency carrying out the tendering / bidding process shall be deemed to be the 
Authorized Representative of the ‘Procurer’ or ‘Buying Entity’ or ‘KSEBL’ and will on behalf of the 
Procurer be responsible for fulfilling all the obligations imposed on the ‘Procurer’ during the 
bidding phase, in accordance with these Guidelines. 
47.7 “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS” or “BESS” shall mean the system(s)/projects 
utilizing methods and technologies such as electrochemical batteries (Lead Acid, Li-ion, solid state 
batteries, flow batteries, etc.), providing a facility that can store chemical energy and deliver the 
stored energy in the form of electricity, including but not limited to ancillary facilities (grid support, 
for example). Such systems may be co-located with RE Generating Stations, or may be operated 
on stand-alone basis. 
47.8 “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM DEVELOPER” or “BESSD” or “DEVELOPER” or 
“PROJECT DEVELOPER” or “DEVELOPER” shall mean the entity owning/operating the BESS 
facility for supply of power under the BESPA, and shall refer to the Bidding Company or a Bidding 
Consortium participating in the bid and having been selected and allocated a Project capacity by 
KSEBL (through a competitive bidding process), including the SPV formed by the selected bidder/ 
consortium for the purpose of setting up of the Project and signing of BESPA with KSEBL. 
47.9 “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE PURCHASE AGREEMENT” or “BESPA” shall mean the 
agreement signed between the Selected Bidder/BESSD and KSEBL according for procurement of 
capacity from the BESS, as per the terms and conditions of the standard BESPA enclosed with 
this RfS. 
47.10 “BID” or “PROPOSAL” shall mean the documents submitted by the Bidder towards meeting the 
techno-commercial and financial qualifying requirements, along with the price bid submitted by the 
Bidder as part of its response to the RfS issued by NVVN as Authorized Representative of 
KSEBL. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 62 of 138 
 
47.11 “BIDDER” shall mean Bidding Company (including a foreign company) or a Bidding Consortium 
submitting the Bid. Any reference to the Bidder includes Bidding Company/ Bidding Consortium, 
Member of a Bidding Consortium including its successors, executors and permitted assigns and 
Lead Member of the Bidding Consortium jointly and severally, as the context may require; foreign 
companies participating in the bidding process shall be registered as companies as per the rules 
of their country of origin. 
47.12 “BIDDING CONSORTIUM” or “CONSORTIUM” shall refer to a group of Companies that 
collectively submit the response in accordance with the provisions of this RfS under a Consortium 
Agreement. 
47.13 “BID CAPACITY” shall mean aggregate project capacity of the Battery Energy Storage System(s) 
as proposed by the Bidder. 
47.14 “BUYING ENTITY” or “Buying Utility” or “Discom” or “END PROCURER” shall mean Kerala 
State Electricity Board Ltd. (KSEBL). 
47.15 “CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT” shall mean a person practicing in India or a firm whereof all the 
partners practicing in India as a Chartered Accountant(s) within the meaning of the Chartered 
Accountants Act, 1949. 
For bidders incorporated in countries other than India, “Chartered Accountant” shall mean a 
person or a firm practicing in the respective country and designated/ registered under the 
corresponding Statutes/ laws of the respective country. 
47.16 “COMPANY” shall mean a body corporate incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 2013 
or any law in India prior thereto relating to Companies, as applicable. 
47.17 “COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE (COD)” shall mean the date as defined in Clause 24 of the 
RfS. 
47.18  “CONTRACTED CAPACITY” or the “PROJECT CAPACITY” shall mean the capacity in 
MW/MWh (“X” MW x 4 hrs) contracted with KSEBL for providing Energy storage facility to the 
Procurer for charging and discharging the system on “on -demand” basis, based on which the 
BESPA is executed with KSEBL. 
47.19  “CONTRACT YEAR” shall mean the period beginning from the Effective Date of the BESPA and 
ending on the immediately succeeding 31st March and thereafter each period of 12 months 
beginning on 1st April and ending on 31st March provided that: 
a. in the financial year in which the Scheduled Commissioning Date would occur, the Contract Year 
shall end on the date immediately before the Scheduled Commissioning Date and a new Contract 
Year shall commence once again from the Scheduled Commissioning Date and end on the 
immediately succeeding 31st March, and thereafter each period of 12 (Twelve) Months 
commencing on 1st April and ending on 31st March, and 
b. provided further that the last Contract Year of this Agreement shall end on the last day of the 
Term of this Agreement. 
47.20  “CONTROL” shall mean the ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% (fifty percent) of 
the voting shares of such Company or right to appoint majority Directors. 
47.21  “CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDING” shall mean more than 50% of the voting rights and paid up 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 63 of 138 
 
share capital in the Company/ Consortium. 
47.22  “CENTRAL TRANSMISSION UTILITY (CTU)” shall mean the Central Transmission Utility as 
defined in sub-section (10) of section 2 of the Electricity Act 2003. 
47.23 “DAY” shall mean calendar day. 
47.24 “Declared Capacity” – shall mean the amount of electricity (in MW ) that the BESS is capable of 
delivering, as declared by the BESSD for each 15 minute Time Block on Day ahead basis 
47.25  “EFFECTIVE DATE” shall mean the date as on 30 days from the date of issue of LoA, or the date 
of signing of BESPA, whichever is later (for example, if the date of LoA is 07.04.2025, the Effective 
Date will be 06.05.2025 or date of signing of BESPA, whichever is later). Subsequent to expiry of 
the 30 -day period after the issuance of LoA, in case KSEBL intimates to the Successful Bidder, a 
particular date as the date for signing of BESPA, the specified date shall become the Effective 
Date of the BESPA, irrespective of the date of signing of BESPA. 
47.26 “EQUITY” shall mean Net Worth as defined in Companies Act, 2013. 
47.27 “FINANCIAL CLOSURE” or “PROJECT FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS” means arrangement 
of necessary funds by the BESSD towards 100% Project Cost either by way of commitment of 
funds by the Company from its internal resources and/or tie up of funds through a bank/ financial 
institution by way of sanction of a loan or letter agreeing to finance; 
47.28 “GUIDELINES” shall mean “Guidelines for Procurement and Utilization of Battery Energy Storage 
Systems as part of Generation, Transmission and Distribution assets, along with Ancillary 
Services” issued by Ministry of Power vide Gazette Resolution dated 10.03.2022, including 
subsequent amendments and clarification thereof, if any, issued until the last date of bid 
submission of this RfS. 
47.29 “GROUP COMPANY” of a Company means 
a. a Company which, directly or indirectly, holds 10% (Ten Percent) or more of the share capital of 
the Company or; 
b. a Company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, holds 10% (Ten Percent) or more of the 
share capital of such Company or; 
c. a Company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has the power to direct or cause to be 
directed the management and policies of such Company whether through the ownership of 
securities or agreement or any other arrangement or otherwise or; 
d. a Company which, directly or indirectly, has the power to direct or cause to be directed the 
management and policies of the Company whether through the ownership of securities or 
agreement or any other arrangement or otherwise or; 
e. a Company which is under common control with the Company, and control means ownership by 
one Company of at least 10% (Ten Percent) of the share capital of the other Company or power 
to direct or cause to be directed the management and policies of such Company whether through 
the ownership of securities or agreement or any other arrangement or otherwise; 
Provided that entities which have Government shareholding, financial institution, scheduled bank, 
foreign institutional investor, Non -Banking Financial Company, and any mutual fund, pension 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 64 of 138 
 
funds and sovereign funds shall not be deemed to be Group Company, and its shareholding and 
the power to direct or cause to be directed the management and policies of a Company shall not 
be considered for the purposes of this definition unless it is the Project Company or a Member of 
the Consortium developing the Project. 
47.30 “ISTS” shall mean Inter-State Transmission System. 
47.31 “InSTS” shall mean Intra-State Transmission System 
47.32 “INTER-CONNECTION POINT/ DELIVERY/ METERING POINT” shall mean a single point at 
the 220 kV Brahmapuram substation of Kerala State Electricity Board Limited, at the voltage 
level of 220 kV, where the power from the Project(s) is injected into the grid (including the 
dedicated transmission line connecting the Projects with the substation system) as specified in 
the RfS document. Metering shall be done at this interconnection point where the power is 
injected into or drawn from. For interconnection with grid and metering, the BESSDs shall abide 
by the relevant CERC/ KSERC Regulations, Grid Code  and Central Electricity Authority 
(Installation and Operation of Meters) Regulations, 2014 or equivalent KSERC Grid Connectivity 
and Intra-state Open Access Regulations, 2013 as amended and revised from time to time. 
47.33 “JOINT CONTROL” shall mean a situation where a company has multiple promoters (but none 
of the shareholders has more than 50% of voting rights and paid up share capital). 
47.34 “LEAD MEMBER OF THE BIDDING CONSORTIUM” or “LEAD MEMBER”: There shall be only 
one Lead Member, having the shareholding of not less 51% in the Bidding Consortium. 
Note: The shareholding of the Lead member in the Project Company (Special Purpose Vehicle) 
cannot be changed till 01 (one) year after the Commercial Operation Date (COD) of the Project. 
47.35 “LETTER OF AWARD” or “LoA” shall mean the letter issued by KSEBL to the selected Bidder 
for award of the Project. 
47.36 “LIMITED LIABILITY PARTNERSHIP” or “LLP” shall mean a Company governed by Limited 
Liability Partnership Act 2008 or as amended. 
47.37 “LLC” shall mean Limited Liability Company. 
47.38 “MEMBER IN A BIDDING CONSORTIUM” or “MEMBER” shall mean each Company in a Bidding 
Consortium. In case of a Technology Partner being a member in the Consortium, it has to be a 
Company. 
47.39 “MONTH” shall mean calendar month. 
47.40 “NET-WORTH” shall mean the Net-Worth as defined section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
47.41 “PAID-UP SHARE CAPITAL” shall mean the paid-up share capital as defined in Section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
47.42 “PARENT” shall mean a Company, which holds more than 50% voting rights and paid up share 
capital, either directly or indirectly in the Project Company or a Member in a Consortium developing 
the Project. 
47.43 “PROJECT” shall mean the Battery Energy Storage System set up by the BESSD for supply of 
Power on an “on Demand” basis, having single point of injection/drawl into/from the grid at 
Interconnection/ Delivery/ Metering Point, or in case of sharing of transmission lines, by separate 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 65 of 138 
 
injection at Pooling Point and having separate control systems and metering. The Project shall 
also comprise auxiliaries and associated facilities, bay(s) for transmission system in the their 
switchyard, dedicated transmission line up to the injection point and all the other assets, 
buildings/structures, equipment, plant and machinery (pertaining to the BESS), facilities and 
related assets required for the efficient and economic operation of the power supply facility, 
whether completed or at any stage of development and construction or intended to be developed 
and constructed for the purpose of supply of power to KSEBL.  
47.44 “PROJECT CAPACITY” shall mean the maximum AC capacity at the Delivery Point that 
can be scheduled on which the BESPA shall be signed; 
47.45 “PROJECT COMMISSIONING”: The Project will be considered as commissioned in line with the 
Commissioning procedure defined in the RfS/BESPA and upon certification thereof by KSEBL. 
47.46 “PROJECT LOCATION” shall mean the area identified by the BESSD, comprising village(s), 
Tehsil(s)/Taluk(s) and District(s) within Kerala, where the Project is being implemented. 
47.47 “POWER ON DEMAND” shall mean the requirement of the Buying Entity to charge and discharge 
the BESS based on its requirements during the time of day, subject to provisions of the RfS and 
BESPA. 
47.48 “RENEWABLE ENERGY (RE) POWER” shall mean power from a RE Power generation facility. 
47.49 “RfS” or “RfS DOCUMENT” or “BIDDING DOCUMENT(S)” or “TENDER DOOCUMENTS” shall 
mean the  “Request for Selection” document issued by NVVN, acting as Authorised 
Representative of KSEBL , including standard Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement, 
along with subsequent clarifications and amendments thereof, vide RfS No.  dated  . 
47.50 “SCHEDULED COMMISSIONING DATE” or “SCD” shall be the date as indicated in Clause 9 of 
the RfS. 
47.51 “SELECTED BIDDER” or “SUCCESSFUL BIDDER” shall mean the Bidder selected pursuant to 
this RfS to set up the Project and supply electrical output as per the terms of BESPA.   
47.52 “STATE TRANSMISSION UTILITY” or “STU” shall mean Kerala State Electricity Board Ltd. 
47.53 “STATUOTORY AUDITOR” shall mean the auditor appointed under the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 1956 / Companies Act, 2013 (as the case may be) or under the provisions of any 
other applicable governing law 
47.54 “TOE” shall mean Tender Opening Event. 
47.55 “TIME BLOCK” – shall refer to  a 15 -minute interval for which electrical 
parameters and quantities are recorded by special energy meters in Indian Power Grid. 
47.56 “ULTIMATE PARENT” shall mean a Company, which owns more than 50% (Fifty Percent) voting 
rights and paid up share capital, either directly or indirectly in the Parent and Affiliates; 
47.57 “WEEK” shall mean calendar week; 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 66 of 138 
 
SECTION 6. 
SAMPLE FORMS & FORMATS FOR BID SUBMISSION 
The following formats are required to be submitted as part of the RfS. These formats are designed to 
demonstrate the Bidder’s compliance with the Qualification Requirements set forth in Section 4 and other 
submission requirements specified in the RfS. 
Format 7.1 
COVERING LETTER 
(The Covering Letter should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead 
Member of Consortium) 
Ref.No.   Date:   
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
To 
NVVN Limited 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No. ……….. dated ………….. for ..............................  (Insert title of the RfS) 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We, the undersigned.......... [insert name of the ‘Bidder’] having read, examined and understood in detail 
the RfS including Qualification Requirements in particular, terms and conditions of the standard BESPA 
for availability of Contracted Capacity for the Term of the BESPA to the Intermediary Procurer, hereby 
submit our response to RfS. 
 
We confirm that in response to the aforesaid RfS, neither we nor any of our Ultimate 
Parent Company/ Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Group Company has submitted response to 
RfS other than this response to RfS, directly or indirectly, in response to the aforesaid RfS 
(as mentioned in Format 7.8 under Disclosure) OR We confirm that in the response to the aforesaid RfS, 
we have a Group Company who owns more than 10% but less than 26% in the bidding company as well 
as other companies who may participate in this RfS, and accordingly, we have submitted requisite 
undertaking as per Format 7.8A in this regard [strike out whichever not applicable]. 
 
We also confirm that we including our Ultimate Parent Company/ Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Group 
Companies directly or indirectly have not submitted response to RfS for more than cumulative capacity of 
   MW/    MWh (to be specified as ½ of the tendered capacity) , including this response to RfS. 
We are submitting response to RfS for the development of following Project(s) [strike out one of the 
projects if not applicable]: - 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 67 of 138 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of the Substation Location Connectivity 
voltage 
Proposed 
BESS 
capacity in 
MW/ MWh 
1. 220kV SS Brahmapuram 9.996928 
76.371255 
220 kV 250/ 500 
 
*The preferences of the  Projects shall be considered only for the last successful bidder whose total 
quoted capacity is  more than the balance capacity. In this case, allocation will be done as described in 
Clause 44.4 of the RfS. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the RfS, dated …………….…. [Insert date in 
dd/mm/yyyy], standard BESPA documents attached thereto, issued by NVVN on behalf of 
KSEBL. In token of our acceptance to the RfS, BESPA and BESSA documents along with the 
amendments and clarifications issued by NVVN, the same have been digitally signed by us and 
enclosed with the  response to RfS. We shall ensure that the BESPA is executed as per the 
provisions of the RfS and provisions of BESPA and shall be binding on us. Further, we confirm 
that the Project shall be commissioned within the deadline as per Clause 9 of the RfS. We further 
undertake that we shall demonstrate possession of 100% area of the identified land, within the 
timelines as per the RfS. 
 
2. Earnest Money Deposit (EMD):- (Please read Clause 17 carefully before filling) 
We have enclosed EMD of INR …………. (Insert Amount), in the form of Bank Guarantee 
no…………. [Insert bank guarantee number] dated ............. [Insert date of bank guarantee] as per 
Format 7.3A from ………… [Insert name of bank providing bank guarantee] and valid up 
to… ........... in terms of Clause No. 18 of this RfS. The total capacity of the BESS Project offered 
by us is …………. MW/ ....... MWh. [Insert cumulative capacity proposed]. (strike off whichever is 
not applicable). 
 
3. We hereby declare that in the event our Project(s) get selected and we are not able to submit Bank 
Guarantee/POI of the requisite value(s) towards PBG, Consultancy Fee for the selected Projects, 
within due time as mentioned in Clauses 19 & 20 of this RfS on issue of LoA by KSEBL for the 
selected Projects and/or we are not able to sign BESPA  with Procurer within the timeline  as 
stipulated in the RfS for the selected Projects, KSEBL shall have the right to take action as per 
provisions of Format-7.3A of the RfS. 
 
4. We have submitted our response to RfS strictly as per Section 7 (Sample Forms and Formats) of 
this RfS, without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes in 
the said Formats. 
 
5. Acceptance: - 
We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by NVVN/ 
KSEBL in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the RfS shall be binding on us. We 
hereby expressly waive and withdraw any deviations from the provisions of the RfS and also 
waive and withdraw all claims in respect of this process. 
We also unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by KSEBL in 
respect of award of Projects according to our preference order as above and in line with the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 68 of 138 
 
provisions of the RfS, shall be binding on us. 
6. Familiarity with Relevant Indian Laws, Regulations and Orders:- 
We confirm that we have studied the provisions of the relevant Indian Laws, Regulations and Order 
issued by judicial bodies as required to enable us to submit this response to RfS and execute the 
BESPA, in the event of our selection as Successful Bidder. 
 
7. In case of our selection as the Successful bidder under the scheme and the project being executed 
by a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) incorporated by us which shall be our subsidiary, we shall 
infuse necessary equity to the requirements of RfS. Further we will submit a Board Resolution prior 
to signing of BESPA with the Intermediary Procurer, committing total equity infusion in the SPV as 
per the provisions of RfS. 
 
8. We are submitting our response to the RfS with formats duly signed as desired by you in the RfS 
online for your consideration. 
 
9. It is confirmed that our response to the RfS is consistent with all the requirements of submission 
as stated in the RfS, including all clarifications and amendments and subsequent communications 
from NVVN. 
 
10. The information submitted in our response to the RfS is correct to the best of our knowledge and 
understanding. We would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response to the 
RfS. 
 
11. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our Bid are valid up to  (Insert date in 
dd/mm/yyyy) for acceptance [i.e. a period of 12 months from the last date of submission of 
response to RfS]. 
 
12. Contact Person 
 
Details of the representative to be contacted by NVVN/ KSEBL are furnished as under: 
Name : …………………………………… 
Designation : …………………………………… 
Company : …………………………………… 
Address : …………………………………… 
Phone Nos. : …………………………………… 
Mobile Nos. : …………………………………… 
Fax Nos. : …………………………………… 
E-mail address : …………………………………… 
 
13. We have neither made any statement nor provided any information in this Bid, which to the best 
of our knowledge is materially inaccurate or misleading. Further, all the confirmations, declarations 
and representations made in our Bid are true and accurate. In case this is found to be incorrect 
after our selection as Successful Bidder, we agree that the same would be treated as a seller’s 
event of default under BESPA and consequent provisions of BESPA shall apply. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 69 of 138 
 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 70 of 138 
 
Format 7.2 
FORMAT FOR POWER OF ATTORNEY 
(Applicable Only in case of Consortiums) 
(To be provided by each of the other members of the Consortium in favor of the Lead Member) 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT M/s................................ ....... having its registered office 
at ………………………….……., …., and M/s …………………….…. having its registered office at 
…………………………………., (Insert names and registered offices of all Members of the Consortium) 
the Members of Consortium have formed a Bidding Consortium named ...............................  (insert name 
of the Consortium if finalized) (hereinafter called the ‘Consortium’) vide Consortium Agreement 
dated……….……………… and having agreed to appoint M/s……………………………..…as the Lead 
Member of the said Consortium do hereby constitute, nominate and appoint M/s ................................ ... a 
company incorporated under the laws of ……….………and having its Registered/ Head Office at 
… ................................ ...... as our duly constituted lawful Attorney (hereinafter called as Lead Member) to 
exercise all or any of the powers for and on behalf of the Consortium in regard to submission of the 
response to RfS No…………….. 
We also authorize the said Lead Member to undertake the following acts: 
i) To submit on behalf of Consortium Members response to RfS. 
ii) To do any other act or submit any information and document related to the above response to 
RfS Bid. 
It is expressly understood that in the event of the Consortium being selected as Successful Bidder, this 
Power of Attorney shall remain valid, binding and irrevocable until the Bidding Consortium achieves 
execution of BESPA. 
We as the Member of the Consortium agree and undertake to ratify and confirm all whatsoever the said 
Attorney/ Lead Member has done on behalf of the Consortium Members pursuant to this Power of Attorney 
and the same shall bind us and deemed to have been done by us. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF M/s ………………………………………….……., as the Member of the 
Consortium have executed these presents on this………. day of ........under the Common Seal of our 
company. 
For and on behalf of Consortium Member 
M/s…………………………. 
- ------------------------------ (Signature of person authorized by the board) 
(Name 
Designation 
Place: 
Date:) 
Accepted 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 71 of 138 
 
(Signature, Name, Designation and Address 
 
 
of the person authorized by the board of the Lead Member) 
Attested 
 
(Signature of the executant) 
 
 
(Signature & stamp of Notary of the place of execution) 
Place: 
Date: 
 
Lead Member in the Consortium shall have the controlling shareholding in the Company as defined in 
Section-6, Definition of Terms of the RfS. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 72 of 138 
 
Format 7.3A 
FORMAT FOR BANK GUARANTEE TOWARDS EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT 
(EMD) 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
 
Reference: ………………………………. 
Bank Guarantee No.: ........................… 
Date: ...................……... 
 
In consideration of the     [Insert name of the Bidder ] 
(hereinafter referred to as 'Bidder') submitting the response to RfS inter alia for   [Insert title of the 
RfS] of the cumulative  capacity of 
  MW/MWh [ Insert cumulative Project capacity proposed ] for offering Battery Energy 
Storage System on long term basis, in response to the RfS No.  dated  issued 
by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited (hereinafter referred to as the NVVN) and the NVVN considering 
such response to the RfS of ………[Insert the name of the Bidder] as per the terms of the 
RfS, the 
  [Insert name & address of bank ] hereby agrees unequivocally, irrevocably and 
unconditionally to pay to the NVVN at [Insert Name of the Place from the address of the NVVN] forthwith 
without demur on demand in writing from NVVN or any Officer authorized by it in this behalf, any amount 
upto and not exceeding Rupees  [Insert amount not less than that derived on the basis of 
Rs. 8.80 Lakhs per MW of cumulative capacity proposed,  only,  on  behalf  of  M/s 
 [Insert name of the Bidder]. 
 
This guarantee shall be valid and binding on this Bank up to and including  [insert date of 
validity in accordance with Clause No. 18 of this RfS] and shall not be terminable by 
notice or any change in the constitution of the Bank or the term of contract or by any other 
reasons whatsoever and our liability hereunder shall not be impaired or discharged by any 
extension of time or variations or alternations made, given, or agreed with or without our 
knowledge   or   consent,   by   or   between   parties   to   the   respective   agreement. 
 
Our liability under this Guarantee is restricted to INR………………..(Indian Rupees 
  only). Our Guarantee shall remain in force until 
 [insert date of validity in accordance with Clause No. 18 of this RfS]. NVVN shall be 
entitled to invoke this Guarantee till _________ [insert date of validity in accordance with Clause No. 18 
of this RfS]. 
 
The Guarantor Bank hereby agrees and acknowledges that NVVN shall have a right to invoke this BANK 
GUARANTEE in part or in full, as it may deem fit. 
 
The Guarantor Bank hereby expressly agrees that it shall not require any proof in addition to the written 
demand by NVVN, made in any  format, raised at the above  mentioned address of the Guarantor Bank, 
in order to make the said payment to NVVN. 
The Guarantor Bank shall make payment hereunder on first demand without restriction or 
conditions and notwithstanding any objection by   [Insert name of the 
Bidder] and/ or any other person. The Guarantor Bank shall not require NVVN to justify the invocation of 
this  BANK  GUARANTEE,  nor  shall  the  Guarantor  Bank  have  any  recourse 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 73 of 138 
 
against NVVN in respect of any payment made hereunder. 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of India and the 
courts at New Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. 
 
The Guarantor Bank represents that this BANK GUARANTEE has been established in such 
form and with such content that it is fully enforceable in accordance with its terms as against 
the Guarantor Bank in the manner provided herein. 
 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall not be affected in any manner by reason of merger, 
amalgamation, restructuring or any other change in the constitution of the Guarantor Bank. 
 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be a primary obligation of the Guarantor Bank and 
accordingly NVVN shall not be obliged before enforcing this BANK GUARANTEE to take any action in 
any court or arbitral proceedings against the Bidder, to make any claim against or any demand on the 
Bidder or to give any notice to the Bidder or to enforce any security held by NVVN or to exercise, levy or 
enforce any distress, diligence or other process against the Bidder. 
 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be effective only when the Bank Guarantee issuance message 
is transmitted by the issuing Bank through SFMS to   First Bank and a confirmation in this regard is 
received by NVVN. 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove, our liability under this Guarantee is 
restricted to INR   (Indian Rupees   Only) and it 
shall remain in force until    [Date to be inserted on the basis of Clause No. 18 of 
this RfS]. 
 
We are liable to pay the guaranteed amount or any part thereof under this Bank Guarantee only 
if NVVN serves upon us a written claim or demand. 
 
Signature:   
Name:  
Power of Attorney No.:   
For 
 [Insert Name and Address of the Bank]   
Contact Details of the Bank: 
E-mail ID of the Bank: 
Banker's Stamp and Full Address. 
Dated this  day of  , 20  
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 74 of 138 
 
Format 7.3 B 
FORMAT FOR PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE (PBG) 
(To be submitted Separately for each Project) 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
Reference: ………………………………. 
Bank Guarantee No.: ........................… 
Date: ...................……... 
 
In consideration of the   [Insert name of the Bidder ] (hereinafter referred to as 
‘selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer') submitting the response to RfS inter alia for 
……………………………[insert title of the RfS] of the capacity of ………. MWh, at ............... [Insert name 
of the place ], in response to the RfS dated………… issued by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited  as 
Authorized Representative of Kerala State Electricity Board  (hereinafter referred to as the Procurer) 
and Procurer considering such response to the RfS of ................................ ................................ .. [Insert 
name of the Bidder] (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include 
its executers, administrators, successors and assignees) and selecting the Project of the Battery Energy 
Storage System Developer (BESSD) and issuing Letter of Award No.   to 
  (Insert Name of selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer) as per 
terms of RfS and the same having been accepted by the selected BESSD resulting in a Battery Energy 
Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) to be entered into, for procurement of capacity [from selected 
Battery Energy Storage System Developer or a Project Company, M/s   {a 
Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed for this purpose}, if applicable]. 
As per the terms of the RfS, the    [Insert name & address of Bank ] hereby agrees 
unequivocally, irrevocably and unconditionally to pay to the   [Insert name of the 
Procurer], (hereinafter referred to as Procurer, or Buying Entity at [Insert Name of the Place from the 
address of the Procurer] forthwith on demand in writing from the Procurer or any Officer authorised by it 
in this behalf, any amount up to and not exceeding Indian Rupees    [Total Value] only, on 
behalf of M/s   [Insert name of the selected Battery Energy Storage 
System Developer/ Project Company] 
This guarantee shall be valid and binding on this Bank up to and including ……….  and shall not be 
terminable by notice or any change in the constitution of the Bank or the term of contract or by any other 
reasons whatsoever and our liability hereunder shall not be impaired or discharged by any extension of 
time or variations or alternations made, given, or agreed with or without our knowledge or consent, by or 
between parties to the respective agreement. 
Our liability under this Guarantee is restricted to INR   (Indian Rupees 
 Only). 
Our Guarantee shall remain in force until ................... The Procurer shall be entitled to invoke this Guarantee 
till ………. 
The Guarantor Bank hereby agrees and acknowledges that the Procurer shall have a right to invoke this 
BANK GUARANTEE in part or in full, as it may deem fit. 
The Guarantor Bank hereby expressly agrees that it shall not require any proof in addition to the written 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 75 of 138 
 
demand by the Procurer, made in any  format, raised at the above  mentioned address of the Guarantor 
Bank, in order to make the said payment to the Procurer. 
The Guarantor Bank shall make payment hereunder on first demand without restriction or conditions and 
notwithstanding any objection by   [Insert name of the selected Battery Energy 
Storage System Developer / Project Company as applicable ] and/ or any other person. The Guarantor 
Bank shall not require the Procurer to justify the invocation of this BANK GUARANTEE, nor shall the 
Guarantor Bank have any recourse against Procurer in respect of any payment made hereunder 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of India and the courts at New 
Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. 
The Guarantor Bank represents that this BANK GUARANTEE has been established in such form and with 
such content that it is fully enforceable in accordance with its terms as against the Guarantor Bank in the 
manner provided herein. 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall not be affected in any manner by reason of merger, amalgamation, 
restructuring or any other change in the constitution of the Guarantor Bank. 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be a primary obligation of the Guarantor Bank and accordingly the 
Procurer shall not be obliged before enforcing this BANK GUARANTEE to take any action in any court 
or arbitral proceedings against the  selected Battery  Energy Storage System Developer/ Project  
Company, to make any claim against or any demand on the selected Battery Energy Storage System 
Developer/ Project Company or to give any notice to the selected Battery Energy Storage System 
Developer/ Project Company  or to enforce any security held by the Procurer or to exercise, levy or 
enforce any distress, diligence or other process against the selected Battery Energy Storage System 
Developer / Project Company. 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be effective only when the Bank Guarantee issuance message is 
transmitted by the issuing Bank through SFMS to  First Bank and a confirmation in this regard 
is received by the Procurer. 
The Guarantor Bank acknowledges that this BANK GUARANTEE is not personal  to the Procurer and 
may be assigned, in  whole or in part, (whether absolutely or by way of security) by the Procurer to any 
entity to whom the Procurer is entitled to assign its rights and obligations under the BESPA. 
Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove, our liability under this Guarantee is restricted to INR 
  (Indian Rupees   Only) and it shall remain in force until 
… ................ We are liable to pay the guaranteed amount or any part thereof under this Bank Guarantee 
only if the Procurer serves upon us a written claim or demand. 
Signature:   
Name:    
Power of Attorney No.:    
For 
 [Insert Name and Address of the Bank]   
 
Contact Details of the Bank: 
 
E-mail ID of the Bank: 
Banker's Stamp and Full Address. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 76 of 138 
 
 
 
Dated this  day of  , 20  
 
Witness: 
 
1. ……………………………………. 
 
Signature 
Name and Address 
 
2. …………………………………. 
 
Signature 
Name and Address 
 
Notes: 
1. The Stamp Paper should be in the name of the Executing Bank and of appropriate value. 
2. The Performance Bank Guarantee shall be executed by any of the Scheduled Commercial Banks 
as listed on the website of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and amended as on the date of issuance 
of Bank Guarantee. Bank Guarantee issued by foreign branch of a Scheduled Commercial Bank 
is to be endorsed by the Indian branch of the same bank or State Bank of India (SBI). 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 77 of 138 
 
Format 7.3 C 
FORMAT OF PAYMENT ON ORDER INSTRUMENT (POI) TO BE ISSUED BY IREDA/REC/PFC (IN 
LIEU OF EMD) 
No. Date 
The NVVN, Registered 
 , 
 
Reg: M/s  (insert name of the Bidder) – Issuance of Payment on Order 
Instrument for an amount of Rs.  
Dear Sir, 
1. It is to be noted that M/s.  (insert name of the POI issuing Agency ) 
(‘IREDA/REC/PFC’) has sanctioned a non-fund based limit loan of Rs.   
(Rupees only) to M/s   under the Loan Agreement executed on 
 to execute Renewable Energy Projects/Energy Storage Projects. 
2. At the request of M/s  , on behalf of   (insert name of the 
Bidder), this Payment on Order Instrument (POI) for an amount of Rs.   
(Rupees (in words)). This Payment on Order Instrument comes into force immediately. 
3. In consideration of the   [Insert name of the Bidder ] 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  'Bidder')  submitting  the  response  to  RfS  inter  alia  for 
 [Insert title of the RfS ] of the cumulative capacity of ………. MW [ Insert 
cumulative Project capacity proposed] for supply of power there from on long term basis, in response 
to the RfS No.    dated  issued by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as the NVVN or Authorised Representative ) and the NVVN 
considering such response to the RfS of 
………[Insert the name of the Bidder] as per the terms of the RfS, the   [Insert 
name & address of IREDA/PFC/REC] hereby agrees unequivocally, irrevocably and unconditionally 
to pay to the NVVN at [Insert Name of the Place from the address of the NVVN] forthwith without 
demur on  demand in writing from the NVVN or any Officer authorized by it in this behalf, any 
amount upto and not exceeding Rupees  [Insert amount not less than that derived on the basis 
of Rs. 6.82 Lakhs per MW of cumulative capacity proposed], only, on behalf of M/s 
 [Insert name of the Bidder]. 
4. In  consideration  of  the  above  facts,  IREDA/REC/PFC,  having  its  registered  office  at 
        , agrees to make payment for the sum of Rs.   lakhs (in 
words… ................................ ... ) to the NVVN on the following conditions:- 
(i) IREDA/REC/PFC agrees to make payment of the above said amount unconditionally, without 
demur and without protest within a period of     days of receipt of request from the NVVN 
within the validity period of this letter as specified herein; 
(j) The commitment of IREDA/REC/PFC, under this Payment of Order Instrument will have the 
same effect as that of the commitment under the Bank Guarantee issued by any Public Sector 
Bank and shall be enforceable in the same manner as in the case of a Bank Guarantee issued 
by a Bank and the same shall be irrevocable and shall be honored irrespective of any 
agreement or its breach between IREDA/REC/PFC or its constituents notwithstanding any 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 78 of 138 
 
dispute that may be raised by the against the NVVN; 
 
(k) The liability of IREDA/REC/PFC continues to be valid and binding on IREDA/REC/PFC and 
shall not be terminated, impaired and discharged, by virtue of change in its constitution and 
specific liability under letter of undertaking shall be binding on its successors or assignors; 
(l) The liability of IREDA/REC/PFC shall continue to be valid and binding on IREDA/REC/PFC 
and shall not be terminated/ impaired/ discharged by any extension of time or variation and 
alternation made given or agreed with or without knowledge or consent of the parties (the 
NVVN and Bidding Party), subject to the however to the maximum extent of amount stated 
herein and IREDA/REC/PFC is not liable to any interest or costs etc; 
(m) This Payment of Order Instrument can be invoked either partially or fully, till the date of validity; 
(n) IREDA/REC/PFC agrees that it shall not require any proof in addition to the written demand 
by the NVVN made in any format within the validity period. IREDA/REC/PFC shall not 
require the NVVN to justify the invocation of the POI against the Bidding Party, to make any 
claim against or any demand against the Bidding Party or to give any notice to the Bidding 
Party; 
(o) The POI shall be the primary obligation of IREDA/REC/PFC  and the NVVN shall not be 
obliged before enforcing the POI to take any action in any court or arbitral proceedings 
against the Bidding Party; 
(p) Neither the NVVN is required to justify the invocation of this POI nor shall IREDA/REC/PFC 
have any recourse against the NVVN in respect of the payment made under letter of 
undertaking; 
5. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained anywhere in this POI or in any other documents, this 
POI is and shall remain valid upto  and IREDA/REC/PFC shall make payment 
thereunder only if a written demand or request is raised within the said date and to the maximum 
extent of Rs ................................ . and IREDA/REC/PFC shall in no case, be liable for any interest, 
costs, charges and expenses and IREDA’s/REC’s/PFC’s liability in no case will exceed more than 
the above amount stipulated. 
6. In pursuance of the above, IREDA/REC/PFC and the NVVN have signed an Umbrella Agreement 
dated   setting out the terms and conditions for issue of letter of undertaking by 
IREDA/REC/PFC to the NVVN and the said terms and conditions shall be read as a part of this 
letter of undertaking issued for the project of the project of PP mentioned above. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copy to:- 
M/s.   PP  
 
 
Yours faithfully 
For and on behalf of 
M/s.   
(Name of the POI issuing agency). 
 
 
( ) 
General Manager (TS) 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 79 of 138 
 
  
As per their request  ( ) 
General Manager (TS) 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 80 of 138 
 
Format 7.3 D 
Bid Security Form Insurance Surety Bond (To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, if any, 
of the Country of the issuing Bank) 
 
 
 
 
 
To 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED, 
Insurance Surety Bond No......................... 
Date.................................................. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 81 of 138 
 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, A-8A, Sector -24, Noida -201301 (U.P.) 
 
Dear Sirs, 
In  accordance  with  Invitation  for  Bids  under  your  Bid  Document  No. , 
M/s...............................[Bidder’s Name] having its Registered/Head Office at............................ 
(hereinafter called the 'Bidder') wish to participate in the said bid for [Name of Package] 
....................................................................................... 
 
 
As an irrevocable Insurance Surety Bond against Bid Security for an amount of ............................ 
(*)...................................... valid for days from ..................................................(**)   required to be 
submitted by the Bidder as a condition precedent for participation in the said bid which amount is liable to 
be forfeited on the happening of any contingencies as mentioned under the Bidding Documents. 
 
 
We, the    [Name & address of the Insurer] .........................................................having our 
Head Office at (#) guarantee and undertake to pay immediately on demand by NTPC 
VIDYUT  VYAPAR  NIGAM  LIMITED  (hereinafter  called  the  'NVVN')  the  amount  
of 
............................................(*) without any reservation, protest, demand and recourse. Any such 
demand made by the 'NVVN' shall be conclusive and binding on us irrespective of any  dispute or 
difference raised by the Bidder and/or any right/remedy available to the bidder in terms thereof. 
This Insurance Surety Bond shall be unconditional as well as irrevocable and shall remain valid upto 
. ..........................(@) If any further extension of this Insurance Surety Bond is required, the same shall 
be extended to such required period (not exceeding one year) on receiving instructions from M/s 
...................... .......................[Bidder's Name] on whose behalf this Insurance Surety Bond is 
issued. 
In witness where of the Insurer, through its authorized officer, has set its hand and stamp on 
this..........................................................................day of...................................20..........at......... 
 
 
 
 
WITNESS: 
 
 
.................................................... .......................................................... 
(Signature) (Signature) 
 
 
.................................................... .......................................................... 
(Name) (Name) 
 
 
.................................................... .......................................................... 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 82 of 138 
 
(Official Address) (Designation with 
Bank Stamp) 
 
Authorized Vide 
Power of Attorney No........................ 
 
Date.................................................... 
 
 
NOTE: 1. (*) The amount shall be as specified in the Bid Data Sheets. (**) This shall be the date 
of opening of Techno-Commercial bids. 
(#) Complete mailing address of the Head Office of the Insurer to be given. 
(@) This date shall be forty-five (45) days after the last date for which the bid is valid. 
2. The Insurance Surety Bond shall be from an Insurer as per guidelines issued by Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) as amended from time to time. 
3. The NVVN shall be the Creditor, the Bidder shall be the Principal debtor and the Insurance 
company/Insurer shall be the Surety in respect of the Insurance Surety Bond to be issued by the Insurer. 
4. The Insurance Surety Bond should be on Non-Judicial stamp paper/e-stamp paper of appropriate 
value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the state(s) where the Insurance Surety Bond is submitted or is to be 
acted upon or the rate prevailing in State where the Insurance Surety Bond is executed, whichever is 
higher. The Stamp Paper/e -stamp paper shall be purchased in the name of Bidder/Insurer issuing the 
Insurance Surety Bond. 
5. While getting the Insurance Surety Bond issued, Bidders are required to ensure compliance to the 
points mentioned in Form of Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond Verification Check List enclosed in 
this Section of Bidding Documents. Further, Bidders are required to fill up this Form and enclose the same 
with the Insurance Surety Bond. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 83 of 138 
 
 
Format 7.4 
FORMAT FOR BOARD RESOLUTIONS 
The Board, after discussion, at the duly convened Meeting on................. [Insert date], with the consent of 
all the Directors present and in compliance of the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies 
Act 2013, as applicable, passed the following Resolution: 
1. RESOLVED THAT Mr/ Ms… .................. , be and is hereby authorized to do on our behalf, all such 
acts, deeds and things necessary in connection with or incidental to our response to RfS vide RfS No. 
 for  (insert title of the RfS), including signing and submission of all 
documents and providing information/ response to RfS to (Insert name of NVVN) the Authorised 
Representative of KSEBL, representing us in all matters before the Authorised Representative of 
KSEBL, and generally dealing with the Authorised Representative of KSEBL in all matters in connection 
with our bid for the said Project. ( To be provided by the Bidding Company or the Lead Member of 
the Consortium) 
2. FURTHER RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies 
Act, 2013, as applicable and compliance thereof and as permitted under the Memorandum and Articles 
of Association of the Company, approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to invest total equity in 
the Project. (To be provided by the Bidding Company) 
[Note: In the event the Bidder is a Bidding Consortium, in place of the above resolution at Sl. No. 
2, the following resolutions are to be provided] 
FURTHER RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies Act, 
2013, as applicable and compliance thereof and as permitted under the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Company, approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to invest (   %) equity 
[Insert the % equity commitment as specified in Consortium Agreement] in the Project. (To be provided 
by each Member of the Bidding Consortium including Lead Member such that total equity is 100%) 
FURTHER RESOLVED THAT approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to participate in 
consortium with M/s ------------ [Insert the name of other Members in the Consortium] and Mr/ 
Ms… .................. , be and is hereby authorized to execute the Consortium Agreement. (To be provided 
by each Member of the Bidding Consortium including Lead Member) 
And 
FURTHER RESOLVED THAT approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to  contribute such 
additional amount over and above the percentage limit (specified for the Lead Member in the Consortium 
Agreement) to the extent becoming necessary towards the total equity share in the Project Company, 
obligatory on the part of the Consortium pursuant  to the terms and conditions contained in the 
Consortium Agreement dated.................... executed by the Consortium as per the provisions of the RfS. 
[To be passed by the Lead Member of the Bidding Consortium] 
3. NOT USED 
In case of a Consortium the respective Boards of all Consortium Members should pass the aforesaid 
Resolution before execution of Consortium Agreement. 
 
Certified True Copy 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 84 of 138 
 
---------------------------- 
(Signature, Name and Stamp of Company Secretary) 
 
 
Notes: 
1) This certified true copy should be submitted on the letterhead of the Company, signed by the 
Company Secretary/ Director. 
2) The contents of the format may be suitably re -worded indicating the identity of the entity passing 
the resolution. 
3) This format may be modified only to the limited extent required to comply with the local regulations 
and laws applicable to a foreign entity submitting this resolution. For example, reference to 
Companies Act, 1956 or Companies Act, 2013 as applicable may be suitably modified to refer to 
the law applicable to the entity submitting the resolution. However, in such case, the foreign entity 
shall submit an unqualified opinion issued by the legal counsel of such foreign entity, stating that 
the Board resolutions are in compliance with the applicable laws of the respective jurisdictions of 
the issuing Company and the authorizations granted therein are true and valid. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 85 of 138 
 
Format 7.5 
FORMAT FOR CONSORTIUM AGREEMENT 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
 
THIS Consortium Agreement (“Agreement”) executed on this     Day of   Two Thousand 
    between M/s    [Insert name of Lead Member ] a Company 
incorporated  under  the  laws  of    and  having  its  Registered  Office  at 
  (hereinafter called the “ Member-1”, which expression shall 
include  its  successors,    executors    and    permitted    assigns)    and    M/s 
  a Company incorporated under the laws of   and 
having its Registered Office at    (hereinafter called the 
“Member-2”, which expression shall include its successors, executors and permitted assigns), M/s 
   a Company incorporated under the laws of   
and having its Registered Office at    (hereinafter called the 
“Member-n”, which  expression shall include its successors, executors and permitted assigns), [ The 
Bidding Consortium should list the details of all the Consortium Members ] for the purpose of submitting 
response to RfS and execution of Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (in case of award), against 
RfS No.  dated  issued by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited ( the Authorised 
Representative) a Company  incorporated  under  the  Companies  Act, 2013,  and  having  its 
Registered Office at 
 . 
WHEREAS, each Member individually shall be referred to as the “Member” and all of the Members shall 
be collectively referred to as the “Members” in this Agreement. 
WHEREAS the  (insert name of the Procurer) desires to purchase Power under RfS for   
(insert title of the RfS); 
WHEREAS, the Authorised Representative had invited response to RfS vide its Request for Selection (RfS) 
dated   
WHEREAS the RfS stipulates that in case response to RfS is being submitted by a Bidding Consortium, 
the Members of the Consortium will have to submit a legally enforceable Consortium Agreement in a 
format specified by the Authorised Representative wherein the Consortium Members have to commit 
equity investment of a specific percentage for the Project. 
NOW THEREFORE, THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSTH AS UNDER: 
In consideration of the above premises and agreements all the Members in this Bidding Consortium do 
hereby mutually agree as follows: 
1. We, the Members of the Consortium and Members to the Agreement do hereby unequivocally 
agree that Member-1 (M/s ), shall act as the Lead Member as defined in the RfS 
for self and agent for and on behalf of Member-2,   , Member-n and to submit the response to 
the RfS. 
2. The Lead Member is hereby authorized by the Members of the Consortium and Members to the 
Agreement to bind the Consortium and receive instructions for and on their behalf. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 86 of 138 
 
3. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in this Agreement, the Lead Member shall always be 
liable for the equity investment obligations of all the Consortium Members i.e. for both its own 
liability as well as the liability of other Members. 
 
4. The Lead Member shall be liable and responsible for ensuring the individual and collective 
commitment of each of the Members of the Consortium in discharging all of their respective equity 
obligations. Each Member further undertakes to be individually liable for the performance of its 
part of the obligations without in any way limiting the scope of collective liability envisaged in this 
Agreement. 
5. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the share of each Member of the Consortium in the issued 
equity share capital of the Project Company is/shall be in the following proportion: 
 
Name Percentage 
Member 1 --- 
Member 2 --- 
Member n --- 
Total 100% 
We acknowledge that after the execution of BESPA, the controlling shareholding (having not less 
than 51% of the voting rights and paid up share capital) in the Project Company developing the 
Project shall be maintained upto COD of the Project. 
6. The Lead Member, on behalf of the Consortium, shall inter alia undertake full responsibility for 
liaising with Lenders or through internal accruals and mobilizing debt resources for the Project, 
and ensuring that the Seller achieves Financial Closure in terms of the BESPA. 
7. In case of any breach of any equity investment commitment by any of the Consortium Members, 
the Lead Member shall be liable for the consequences thereof. 
8. Except as specified in the Agreement, it is agreed that sharing of responsibilities as aforesaid and 
equity investment obligations thereto shall not in any way be a limitation of responsibility of the 
Lead Member under these presents. 
9. It is further specifically agreed that the financial liability for equity contribution of the Lead Member 
shall not be limited in any way so as to restrict or limit its liabilities. The Lead Member shall be 
liable irrespective of its scope of work or financial commitments. 
10. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of India and courts 
at New Delhi alone shall have the exclusive jurisdiction in all matters relating thereto and arising 
thereunder. 
11. It is hereby further agreed that in case of being selected as the Successful Bidder, the Members 
do hereby agree that they shall furnish the Performance Guarantee in favour of the Procurer in 
terms of the RfS. 
12. It is further expressly agreed that the Agreement shall be irrevocable and shall form an integral 
part of the Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) and shall remain valid until the 
expiration or early termination of the BESPA in terms thereof, unless expressly agreed to the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 87 of 138 
 
contrary by the Procurer. 
13. The Lead Member is authorized and shall be fully responsible for the accuracy and veracity of the 
representations and information submitted by the Members respectively from time to time in the 
response to RfS. 
14. It is hereby expressly understood between the Members that no Member at any given point of 
time, may assign or delegate its rights, duties or obligations under the BESPA except with prior 
written consent of the Procurer. 
15. This Agreement 
a) has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of each Member hereto and constitutes the 
legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligation of each such Member; 
b) sets forth the entire understanding of the Members hereto with respect to the subject matter 
hereof; and 
c) may not be amended or modified except in writing signed by each of the Members and with 
prior written consent of the Procurer. 
16. All the terms used in capitals in this Agreement but not defined herein shall have the meaning as 
per the RfS and BESPA. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Members have, through their authorized representatives, executed these 
present on the Day, Month and Year first mentioned above. 
For M/s [Member 1] 
 
 
(Signature, Name & Designation of the person authorized vide Board Resolution Dated  ) 
Witnesses: 
 
 
1) Signature----------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
2) Signature --------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
 
 
For M/s [Member 2] 
 
 
(Signature, Name & Designation of the person authorized vide Board Resolution Dated  ) 
 
 
Witnesses: 
 
1) Signature ----------------------- 
Name: 
2) Signature ---------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 88 of 138 
 
Address: 
 
 
For M/s [Member n] 
 
 
 
 
(Signature, Name & Designation of the person authorized vide Board Resolution Dated  ) 
Witnesses: 
1) Signature ----------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
(2) Signature ---------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
 
 
 
Signature and stamp of  Notary of the place of execution 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 89 of 138 
 
Format 7.6 
FORMAT FOR FINANCIAL REQUIREMENT 
(This should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
To 
 
(Enter address of the NVVN) 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
We certify that the Bidding Company/Member in a Bidding Consortium is meeting the financial eligibility 
requirements as per the provisions of the RfS. Accordingly, the Bidder, with the support of its Affiliates, 
(strike out if not applicable) is fulfilling the minimum Net Worth/AUM criteria, by demonstrating a Net 
Worth/AUM of Rs.………….. Cr. (………………… in words) as on the last date of Financial Year 2023 - 
24/2022-23 or as on the date at least 7 days prior to the bid submission deadline (Strike our wherever not 
applicable). 
This Net Worth/AUM has been calculated in accordance with instructions provided in Clause 39.1 of the 
RfS. 
Exhibit (i): Applicable in case of Bidding Company 
For the above calculations, we have considered the Net Worth/AUM by Bidding Company and/ or its 
Affiliate(s) as per following details: 
 
Name of Bidding 
Company 
Name of Affiliate(s) 
whose net worth is to 
be considered 
Relationship 
with Bidding 
Company* 
Net Worth/AUM 
(in Rs. Crore) 
 
Company 1 
   
   
   
Total  
*The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability of 
Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a practicing company secretary/ chartered accountant is 
required to be attached with the format. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 90 of 138 
 
Exhibit (ii): Applicable in case of Bidding Consortium 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 91 of 138 
 
(To be filled by each Member in a Bidding Consortium separately) 
Name of Member: [Insert name of the Member] 
 
Net Worth/AUM Requirement to be met by Member in Proportion to the Equity Commitment: INR --------- 
---- Crore (Equity Commitment (%) * Rs. [ ] Crore) 
For the above calculations, we have considered Net Worth/AUM by Member in Bidding Consortium and/ 
or its Affiliate(s) per following details: 
 
 
Name of 
Consortium 
Member 
Company 
Name of 
Affiliate(s) 
whose net 
worth/AUM 
is to be 
considered 
 
Relationship 
with Bidding 
Company* 
(If any) 
 
Net 
Worth/AUM 
(in Rs. 
Crore) 
Equity 
Commitment 
(in %age) in 
Bidding 
Consortium 
Committed 
Net 
Worth/AUM 
(in Rs. 
Crore) 
Company 1      
---      
Total    
 
* The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability 
of Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a practicing company secretary/chartered accountant is 
required to be attached with the format 
Further, we certify that the Bidding Company/ Member in the Bidding Consortium, with the support of its 
Affiliates, (strike out if not applicable) is fulfilling the minimum Annual Turnover Criteria, by demonstrating 
an Annual Turnover of INR  ( in words) as on the end of Financial Year 2023-24/2022- 
23 or as on the day at least 7 days prior to the bid submission deadline (choose one). (Strike out if not 
applicable) 
Exhibit (i): Applicable in case of Bidding Company 
For the above calculations, we have considered the Annual Turnover by Bidding Company and/ or its 
Affiliate(s) as per following details: 
 
Name of Bidding 
Company 
Name of Affiliate(s) 
whose Annual Turnover 
is to be considered 
Relationship with 
Bidding Company* 
Annual 
Turnover 
(In Rs. Crore) 
Company 1 
   
   
Total  
*The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability of 
Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a practicing company secretary/chartered accountant is 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 92 of 138 
 
required to be attached with the format. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 93 of 138 
 
Exhibit (ii): Applicable in case of Bidding Consortium 
(To be filled by each Member in a Bidding Consortium separately) 
Name of Member: [Insert name of the Member] 
 
Annual Turnover Requirement to be met by Member in Proportion to the Equity Commitment: INR -------- 
- --- Crore (Equity Commitment (%) * Rs. [ ] Crore) 
For the above calculations, we have considered Annual Turnover by Member in Bidding Consortium and/ 
or its Affiliate(s) as per following details: 
 
 
Name of 
Consortiu 
m Member 
Company 
Name of 
Affiliate(s) 
whose Annual 
Turnover is to 
be considered 
Relationshi 
p with 
Bidding 
Company* 
(If Any) 
 
Annual 
Turnover 
(in Rs. 
Crore) 
Equity 
Commitment 
(in %age) in 
Bidding 
Consortium 
Proportio 
nate 
Annual 
Turnover 
(in Rs. 
Crore) 
Company 1      
---      
---      
Total    
 
* The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability 
of Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a practicing company secretary/chartered accountant is 
required to be attached with the format 
 
 
(Signature & Name of the Authorized Signatory) (Signature and Stamp of CA) 
 
 
 
Date: 
Membership No. 
Regn. No. of the CA’s Firm: 
Note: (i) Along with the above format, in a separate sheet on the letterhead of the Chartered Accountant’s 
Firm, provide details of computation of Net Worth and Annual Turnover duly certified by the 
Chartered Accountant. 
(ii) Certified copies of Balance sheet, Profit & Loss Account, Schedules and Cash Flow Statements 
are to be enclosed in complete form along with all the Notes to Accounts. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 94 of 138 
 
FORMAT 7.7 
UNDERTAKING 
(To be submitted on the letterhead of the Bidder) 
 
 
We, hereby provide this undertaking to NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited, in respect to our response to 
RfS vide RfS No.  dated , that M/s  (insert name of 
the Bidder), or any of its Affiliates is not a willful defaulter to any lender. 
Further, we also undertake that as on the bid submission deadline, the Bidder & any of its Affiliate, 
including any Consortium Member & any of its Affiliate, their directors have not been barred or included 
in the blacklist by any government agency or authority in India, the government of the jurisdiction of the 
Bidder or Members where they are incorporated or the jurisdiction of their principal place of business, any 
international financial institution such as the World Bank Group, Asian Development Bank, African 
Development Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank etc. or the 
United Nations or any of its agencies. 
 
 
(Name and Signature of the Authorized Signatory) 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 95 of 138 
 
Format 7.8 
FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE 
(To be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Each Member of Consortium) 
DISCLOSURE 
 
 
Ref.No.   Date:   
 
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
 
(Enter address of the NVVN) 
 
Sub:  Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We hereby declare and confirm that only we are participating in the RfS Selection process for the RfS 
No. and that our Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company with which we 
have direct or indirect relationship are not separately participating in this selection process. 
We further declare that the above statement is true & correct. We undertake that if at any stage it is found 
to be incorrect, in addition to actions applicable under the RfS/BESPA including but not limited to 
cancellation  of  our  response  to  this  RfS  and  LoA/BESPA  as  applicable,  we,  i.e.  M/s 
 (enter name of the bidding company/member in a consortium), including our Parent, 
Ultimate Parent, and our Affiliates shall be suspended/debarred from participating in any of the upcoming 
tenders issued by the NVVN for a period of 2 years from the date of default as notified by the NVVN. 
We also understand that the above is in addition to the penal consequences that may follow from the 
relevant laws for the time being in force. 
We further declare that we have read the provisions of Clause 37.4 of the RfS, and are complying with 
the requirements as per the referred OM dated 23.02.2023 except Sl. 17 of the OM, including subsequent 
amendments and clarifications thereto. Accordingly, we are also enclosing necessary certificates 
(Annexure to this format) in support of the above compliance under the RfS. We understand that in case 
of us being selected under this RfS, any of the above certificates is found false, NVVN/ KSEBL shall 
take appropriate action as deemed necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 96 of 138 
 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 97 of 138 
 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 98 of 138 
 
Format 7.8A 
FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE 
(To be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Each Member of Consortium) 
(To be submitted by all such bidders in which a common Company/companies directly/indirectly 
own(s) more than 10% but less than 26% shareholding) 
DISCLOSURE 
Ref.No.   Date:   
 
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
Tel. #: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
To 
 
(Enter address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We hereby declare and confirm that in terms of the definitions of the RfS, M/s  (enter 
name of the common shareholder) is our Group Company, and has a direct/indirect shareholding of less 
than 26% in the bidding company. M/s  (enter name of the common shareholder) also holds 
directly/indirectly less than 26% shareholding in other Companies which may participate in this RfS, i.e. 
RfS No. . 
We undertake that M/s   (enter name of the above common shareholder) is not a  party to 
the decision-making process for submission of response to this RfS by M/s   (enter 
name of the bidding company/member in the consortium). We further undertake that while undertaking 
any action as part of our response to RfS, we are not complicit with other such bidders participating in this 
RfS, in which M/s   (enter name of the common shareholder) has less than 26% 
direct/indirect shareholding, if any. 
We further declare that the above statement is true & correct. We undertake that if at any stage it is found 
to be incorrect, in addition to actions applicable under the RfS/BESPA including but not limited to 
cancellation  of  our  response  to  this  RfS  and  LoA/BESPA  as  applicable,  we,  i.e.  M/s 
 (enter name of the bidding company/member in a consortium), including our Parent, 
Ultimate Parent, and our Affiliates shall be suspended/debarred from participating in any of the upcoming 
tenders issued by the NVVN for a period of 2 years from the date of default as notified by the NVVN. 
We also understand that the above is in addition to the penal consequences that may follow from the 
relevant laws for the time being in force. 
We further declare that we have read the provisions of Clause 37.4 of the RfS, and are complying with 
the requirements as per the referred OM dated 23.02.2023 except Sl. 17 of the OM, including subsequent 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 99 of 138 
 
amendments and clarifications thereto. Accordingly, we are also enclosing necessary certificates 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 100 of 138 
 
(Annexure to this format) in support of the above compliance under the RfS. We understand that in case 
of us being selected under this RfS, any of the above certificates is found false, NVVN/ KSEBL shall 
take appropriate action as deemed necessary. 
Dated the day of , 20 . 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 101 of 138 
 
Annexure to Format 7.8/7.8A 
DECLARATION 
 
RESTRICTION ON PROCUREMENT FROM CERTAIN COUNTRIES: 
MoF OM F.7/10/2021-PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023 
 
(To be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Each Member of Consortium) 
 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
 
(Enter address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to the RfS No ………………… dated ................................ .......... for the tender for 
………………………………………………… 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
This is with reference to attached order vide OM No. F.7/10/2021-PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023 issued by 
Department of Expenditure, MoF, Govt of India. 
 
We are hereby submitting the following declaration in this regard: 
 
"l have read the clause regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country which shares a 
land border with India; I certify that this bidder is  not from such a country or, if from such a country, has 
been registered with the Competent Authority. I hereby certify that this bidder fulfils all requirements in 
this regard and is eligible to be considered. Where applicable, evidence of valid registration by the 
Competent Authority shall be attached]." 
We further declare that the above statement is true & correct. We are aware that if at any stage it is found 
to be incorrect, our response to the tender will be rejected. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Encl: OM dated 23.02.2023, as referred above 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 102 of 138 
 
Format 7.9 
FORMAT FOR TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
(This should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
(To be Submitted Separately for each Project) 
 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
(Enter address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We hereby undertake to certify in line with Clause 23 under the title “Financial Closure” that the following 
details shall be furnished within 06 (six) months from Effective Date of the BESPA. 
1.0 Evidence of achieving complete-tie-up of the Project Cost through internal accruals or through a 
Financing Agency. 
2.0 DPR of the Project, detailing out project configuration and proposed commissioning schedule of 
the Project. 
3.0 Bank Guarantee for an amount equal to of the total VGF amount sanctioned for the Project. 
Failure or delay on our part in achieving the above conditions shall constitute sufficient grounds for actions 
as per the provisions of the RfS. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 103 of 138 
 
Format 7.10 
DECLARATION BY THE BIDDER FOR THE PROPOSED TECHNOLOGY TIE-UP 
(To be Submitted Separately for each Project) 
 
 
1 Name of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of 
Bidding Consortium 
 
   
3 Contracted Capacity proposed ……MW/……MWh 
4 Technology Proposed to be adopted for the 
Project 
(Brief about the technology 
proposed) 
 
 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 104 of 138 
 
Format 7.11 
INTEGRITY PACT 
 
 
Between 
 
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd (NVVN) (hereinafter referred to as 
"The Authorised Representative") and 
. ................................ ................................ ................................ .......(hereinafter referred 
to as "The 
Bidder/Contractor ") 
and 
… ................................ ................................ ................................  (hereinafter referred to as 
"JV Partner/ Consortium Members" (if applicable) 
 
 
Preamble 
The Authorised Representative invites the bids from all eligible bidders and intends to 
enter into Contract for  with the successful bidder(s), as per organizational systems 
and procedures. The Authorised Representative  values full compliance with all 
relevant laws and regulations, and the principles of economical use of resources,  and 
of fairness and transparency in its relations with its Bidder(s) and/or Contractor(s). 
 
In order to achieve these goals, the Authorised Representative  will appoint 
Independent External Monitor(s) (IEM), who will monitor the bidding process and the 
execution of the Contract for compliance with the principles mentioned above. 
 
Section 1   Commitments of the Authorised Representative  
 
1. The Authorised Representative Commits itself to take all measures necessary 
to prevent corruption and to observe the following principles in this regard:- 
a) No employee of the Authorised Representative , either in person or 
through family members including relatives, will in connection with the 
bidding for or the execution of a Contract, demand or accept a promise 
for or accept for him/herself or for a third person, any material or 
immaterial benefit to which he/she is not legally entitled to. 
 
b) The Authorised Representative shall, during the bidding process treat all 
Bidders with equity and reason. The Authorised Representative will, in 
particular, before and during the bidding process, provide to all Bidders 
the same information and will not provide to any Bidder 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 105 of 138 
 
confidential/additional information through which the Bidder(s) could 
obtain an advantage in relation to the bidding process or the Contract 
execution. 
c) The Authorised Representative will exclude from the process all known 
prejudiced persons. 
2. If the Authorised Representative obtains information on the conduct of any of 
its employees which is a criminal offence under the IPC/PC Act or if there be a 
substantive suspicion in this regard, the Authorised Representative will inform 
the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can initiate disciplinary actions. 
Section 2 Commitments and Undertakings by the Bidder/Contractor 
 
1. The Bidder/Contractor commits and undertakes to take all measures necessary to 
prevent malpractices & corruption. He commits himself to observe the following 
principles during his participation in the bidding process and during the 
execution of the contract: 
 
a) The Bidder/ Contractor undertakes not to, directly or through any other 
person or firm offer, promise or give or influence to any employee of the 
Authorised Representative associated with the bidding process or the 
execution of the contract or  to any third person on their behalf any 
material or immaterial benefit which he/she is not legally entitled, in 
order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever 
during the bidding process or during the execution of the contract. 
b) The Bidder/ Contractor undertake not to enter into any undisclosed 
agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal with other 
Bidders. This applies in particular to prices, specifications, 
certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non -submission of 
bids or any other action to restrict competitiveness or to introduce 
cartelization in the bidding process. 
 
c) The Bidder/Contractor undertakes not to commit any offence under the 
relevant Anti-corruption Laws of India; further the Bidder/Contractor will 
not use improperly, any information or document provided by the 
Authorised Representative  as part of the business relationship, 
regarding plans, technical proposals and business details, including 
information contained or transmitted electronically for purposes of 
competition or personal gain and will not pass the information so 
acquired on to others. 
 
d) The Bidder/ Contractor, when presenting his bid, undertakes to 
disclose any and all  payments made, or is committed to or intends to 
make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with 
the bidding process and / or award of the contract. 
e) The Foreign Bidder/ Contractor, when presenting his bid, undertakes to 
disclose the name and address of agents and representative in India. 
Further, Indian Bidder/ Contractor when presenting his bid, undertakes 
to disclose the  name and address of its foreign principals or 
associates. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 106 of 138 
 
 
2. The Bidder/ Contractor will not instigate and allure third persons/parties 
to commit offences outlined above or be an accessory to such 
offences. 
 
Section 3 Disqualification from Bidding Process and Exclusion from Future Contracts 
 
1. If the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s), before award or during execution has 
committed a transgression through a violation of any provisions of Section 2 
so as to put his reliability or credibility as Bidder into question, the Authorised 
Representative shall be entitled to disqualify the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) from 
the bidding process or to terminate the contract, if signed on that ground. 
 
2. If the Bidder/ Contractor has committed a transgression through a violation of 
Section 2 such as to put his reliability or credibility into question, the Authorised 
Representative shall be entitled to exclude including  blacklist and put on 
holiday the Bidder/ Contractor for any future tenders/contract award process. 
The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity 
of the transgression. The severity will be determined by the Authorised 
Representative taking into consideration  the full facts and circumstances of 
each case particularly taking into account the number of transgressions, the 
position of the transgressors within the company hierarchy  of the Bidder and 
the amount of the  damage. The exclusion will be  imposed for a period not 
exceeding two (02) years. 
3. A transgression is considered to have occurred if the Authorised 
Representative after due consideration of the available evidence concludes 
that no reasonable doubt is possible. 
4. The Bidder with its free consent and without any influence agrees and 
undertakes to respect and uphold the Authorised Representative’s absolute 
rights to resort to and impose such exclusion and further  accepts and 
undertakes not to challenge or question such exclusion on any ground, 
including the lack of any hearing before the decision to resort to such 
exclusion is taken. This undertaking is given freely and after obtaining 
independent legal advice. 
5. Subject to full satisfaction of the Authorised Representative, the exclusion of 
Bidder/ Contractor could be revoked by the Authorised Representative if the 
Bidder/ Contractor can prove that he has restored/ recouped the damage 
caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention system in his 
organization. 
 
Section 4  Compensation for Damages including Forfeiture of Earnest 
Money Deposit/ Security Deposit/ Performance & Advance Bank 
Guarantees 
1. If the Authorised Representative has disqualified the Bidder/ Contractor from 
the bidding process or has terminated the contract pursuant to Section 3, the 
Authorised Representative  shall forfeit the Earnest Money Deposit/Bid 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 107 of 138 
 
Security, encash Contract Performance Bank Guarantees in addition to 
excluding the bidder from the future award process and terminating the 
contract. 
 
2. In addition to 1 above, the Authorised Representative shall be entitled to take 
recourse to the relevant provisions  of the contract related to Termination of 
Contract due to Contractor's Default. 
Section 5 Previous Transgressions 
 
1. The Bidder swears on oath that no previous transgression impinging on anti -
corruption principles / any malpractice as mentioned in Section-2 has occurred 
in the last three years immediately before signing of this Integrity Pact, with 
any other company / any Public Sector Enterprise/ Undertaking in India / any 
Government Department in India. 
2. If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on previous transgression as 
mentioned above in para 1, Bidder can be disqualified from the bidding 
process or the contract, if already awarded, can be terminated on this ground 
Section 6 Company Code of Conduct 
 
Bidders are also advised to have a company code of conduct (clearly rejecting 
the use of bribes  and other unethical behaviour) and a compliance program for 
the implementation of the code of conduct throughout the company. 
 
Section 7 Independent External Monitors (IEM) 
 
1. The Authorised Representative will appoint competent and credible 
Independent External Monitor for this Pact. The task of the IEMs is to 
review independently and objectively, whether and to 
what extent the parties comply with the obligations under this agreement. 
 
2. The IEMs are not subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties 
and performs his functions neutrally and independently. He shall report to 
CEO of the Authorised Representative or a person authorized by him. 
3. The Bidder/Contractor accepts that the IEMs have the right to access without 
restriction to all Project documentations of the Authorised Representative  
including that provided by the Contractor. The Contractor  will also grant the 
IEMs, upon his request and demonstration of a valid interest, unrestricted and 
unconditional access to his Project Documentations. The same is applicable to 
Subcontractors. The IEMs are under contractual obligation to treat the 
information and documents of the Bidder / Contractor / Sub -Contractors/ JV 
partners/Consortium member with confidentiality. 
 
4. The Authorised Representative will provide to the IEMs sufficient information 
about all meetings among the parties related to the Project provided such 
meetings could have an impact on the contractual relations between the 
Authorised Representative and the Contractor. The parties offer to the IEMs 
the option to participate in such meetings. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 108 of 138 
 
5. As soon as the IEMs notices, or believes to notice, a violation of this 
agreement, he will so  inform the Management of the Authorised 
Representative (CEO of the Authorised Representative or a person authorized 
by him) and request to discontinue or to take corrective action, or to take other 
relevant action. The IEMs  can in this regard submit non-binding 
recommendations. Beyond  this, the IEMs has no right to demand from  the 
parties that they act in a specific manner, refrain from action or tolerate action. 
However, Independent External Monitor shall give an opportunity to the 
bidder/contractor to present its case before making its recommendations to the 
Authorised Representative . 
 
6. The IEMs will submit a written report to CEO of the Authorised Representative 
or a person authorized by him within 30 days from the date of reference or 
intimation to him by the Authorised Representative and, should the occasion 
arise, submit proposals for correcting problematic situations. 
7. The Bidder / Contractor accepts that they shall not approach courts while the 
matter / complaint / dispute has been referred to the IEM in terms of this pact 
and they shall await IEM’s decision before approaching any Court. 
8. If the IEMs have reported to CEO of the Authorised Representative or a person 
authorized by him a substantiated suspicion of an offence under relevant IPC/ 
PC Act, and he has not, within reasonable time, taken visible action to 
proceed against such offence or reported it to the Chief Vigilance Officer, the 
IEMs may also transmit this information directly to the Central Vigilance 
Commissioner, Government of India. 
9. The word " IEM" will include Singular or Plural. 
 
Section 8 Pact Duration 
This Pact comes into force from the date of signing by all the parties. It shall 
expire for the Contractor 12 months after the last payment under the respective 
Contract, and for all other unsuccessful bidders 6 months after the Contract has 
been awarded. 
 
Section 9 Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
1. This Pact is subject to Indian Law. The place of performance and jurisdiction shall be 
New Delhi. 
2. Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of 
this Pact remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement 
to their original intentions. 
3. The actions stipulated in this Integrity Pact are without prejudice to any other legal 
action that may follow in accordance with the provisions of the extant law in force 
relating to any civil or criminal proceedings. 
4. If the Contractor is a JV partnership / Consortium, this agreement must be signed by 
all the partners of JV / Consortium Partners as the case may be. 
The Parties hereby sign this Integrity Pact at .......... on this ........ day of ........ 20 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 109 of 138 
 
 
 
 
Authorised 
Representative 
Bidder/ Contractor Joint Venture Partner(s)/ 
 Consortium 
member(s) (As 
Applicable) 
 
 
Witness Witness Witness 
 
1. 1. 1. 
 
 
2. 2. 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 110 of 138 
 
Format 7.12 
FORMAT FOR SUBMISSION OF FINANCIAL BID 
(The Covering Letter should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead 
Member of Consortium) 
 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
From:   (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of 
Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
(Enter Address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
 
I/ We,  (Insert Name of the Bidder) enclose herewith the Financial 
Proposal for selection of my/ firm for  number of Project(s) for a cumulative capacity 
of    MW/  MWh in India as Bidder for the above. 
 
 
I/We agree that this offer shall remain valid for a period of 12 months from the due date of 
submission of the response to RfS such further period as may be mutually agreed upon. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of 
Attorney/ Board Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
Notes: 
 
1. There can be only one tariff for all the projects applied for. If the Bidder quotes two 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 111 of 138 
 
tariffs or combination thereof for the projects, then the bid shall be considered as non- 
responsive. 
 
2. If the Bidder submits the financial bid not in line with the instructions mentioned therein, 
then the bid shall be considered as non-responsive. 
 
3. Tariff requirement shall be quoted as a fixed amount in Indian Rupees only. Conditional 
proposal shall be summarily rejected. 
 
4. In the event of any discrepancy between the values entered in figures and in words, 
the values entered in words shall be considered. 
 
5. Tariff should be in Indian Rupee in whole numbers only (no decimal places allowed). 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 112 of 138 
 
Format 7.13 
PRELIMINARY ESTIMATE OF COST OF THE PROJECT 
 
Project Capacity: ................... MW/….MWh 
Location: ………………………. 
 
Bidder may use any format to provide the break-up. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of 
Attorney/ Board Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 113 of 138 
 
Format 7.14 
CONFIRMATION OF BGs THROUGH STRUCTURED FINANCIAL MESSAGING SYSTEM 
(SFMS)/ SWIFT 
 
 
While issuing the physical BGs, the Bidder’s Bank shall also send electronic message 
through secure SFMS (in case of BGs issued from within India) or SWIFT (in case of BGs 
issued from outside India) to NVVN’s Beneficiary Bank whose details are provided herein 
below: 
 
 
a. Bank Name: ICICI Bank Limited 
b. Branch: CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
c. Bank Address: 9A, PHELPS BUILDING, INNER CIRCLE, NEW DELHI-110001 
d. IFSC Code: ICIC0000007 
 
 
BG issuing/amending bank must send the BG advice in the form of message format via 
SFMS (Structured Financial Messaging System) as provided by RBI. The format of the 
message for confirmation of the BG shall be as below: 
 
 
BG advising message: IFN 760COV/ IFN 767COV via SFMS 
 
 
Field Number: Particulars (to be mentioned in Row 1) 
 
 
7037: NVVNBG8910 (unique identifier) 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 114 of 138 
 
Annexure - A 
TECHNICAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS TO BE FOLLOWED FOR BATTERY 
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS 
1. Codes and Standards 
The BESS shall comply with the following Codes and Standards or equivalent Indian 
Standards, as applicable. 
 
Standard/ Code (or 
equivalent Indian 
Standards) 
 
Description Certification 
Requirements 
IEC 62485-2 Safety requirements for secondary batteries and 
battery installations - to meet requirements on 
safety aspects associated with the erection, use, 
inspection, maintenance and disposal: 
Applicable for Lead Acid and NiCd / NiMH 
batteries 
Applicable only for 
Lead Acid and 
NiCd/NiMH batteries 
UL 1642 or UL 1973, 
Appendix E (cell) or 
IEC 62619 (cell) + 
IEC 63056 (cell) 
Secondary cells and batteries containing alkaline 
or other non -acid electrolytes - Safety 
requirements for secondary lithium cells and 
batteries, for use in industrial applications 
Required for Cell 
UL 1973 (battery) or 
(IEC 62619 (battery) 
+ IEC 63056 
(battery)) 
Batteries for Use in Stationary, Vehicle Auxiliary 
Power and Light Electric Rail (LER) Applications 
/ Secondary cells and batteries containing 
alkaline or other non -acid electrolytes - Safety 
requirements for secondary lithium cells and 
batteries, for use in industrial applications 
Either UL 1642 or 
UL1973 or (IEC 62619 
+ IEC 63056) for the 
Battery level 
IEC 62281 / UN 38.3 Safety of primary and secondary lithium cells and 
batteries during transport: Applicable for storage 
systems using Lithium Ion chemistries 
Required for both 
Battery and Cell. 
IEC 61850/ DNP3 Communications  networks  and  management 
systems. (BESS control system communication) 
 
UL 9540 or (IEC TS 
62933-5-1 + IEC 
62933-5-2) 
Electrical energy storage (EES) systems - Part 5- 
1: Safety considerations for grid -integrated EES 
systems – General specification / Standard for 
Energy Storage Systems and Equipment 
Either UL9540 or (IEC 
62933-5-1 + IEC 
62933-5-2) is required 
for BESS system level 
IEC 62933-2-1 Electrical energy storage (EES) systems - Part 2- 
1: Unit Parameters and testing methods - 
General Specification 
Tests for Class B 
applications: 
1. Duty Cycle Round 
Trip Efficiency Test 
2. Equipment and Basic 
Function Test 
3. Available energy 
Test 
4. Insulation test 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 115 of 138 
 
Power Conditioning Unit Standards for BESS 
IEC 62477-1 Safety requirements for power electronic converter systems and 
equipment - Part 1: General 
 
IEC 62477-2 
Safety requirements for power electronic converter systems and 
equipment - Part 2: Power electronic converters from 1 000 V AC or 1 500 
V DC up to 36 kV AC or 54 kV DC 
IEC 61000-6-2 Ed. 2 Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-2: Generic standards - 
Immunity standard for industrial environments 
IEC 61000-6-4 Ed. 
2.1 
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-4: Generic standards - 
Emission standard for industrial environments 
IEC 62116 Ed. 2 Utility-interconnected photovoltaic inverters - Test procedure of islanding 
prevention measures 
IEC 60068-2- 
1:2007 Environmental testing - Part 2-1: Tests - Test A: Cold 
IEC 60068-2- 
2:2007 Environmental testing - Part 2-2: Tests - Test B: Dry heat 
IEC 60068-2- 
14:2009 Environmental testing - Part 2-14: Tests - Test N: Change of temperature 
IEC 60068-2- 
30:2005 
Environmental testing - Part 2-30: Tests - Test Db: Damp heat, cyclic (12 
h + 12 h cycle) 
 
The Battery Energy Storage System: 
a) shall follow the relevant CEA/CEIG / State Electrical Inspectorate 
Standards and CERC/SERC Regulations 
b) shall be responsible for complying with the “First Time Energization” 
procedure available at Grid India website as per the IEGC Regulations 
2023 (If applicable). 
c) Comply with the grid-interfacing requirements as mentioned in following standards: 
i. IEEE Std. 2800 -2022: IEEE Standard for Interconnection and 
Interoperability of Inverter -Based Resources (IBRs) Interconnecting 
with Associated Transmission Electric Power Systems 
ii. IEC TS 62786-1: Distributed energy resources connection with the 
grid – Part 1: General requirements 
iii. IEC TS 62786-3: Distributed energy Resources connection with the 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 116 of 138 
 
grid: Part 3, Additional requirements for stationary battery energy 
storage systems 
Further, CEA Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid, Regulations 2007, Part-1 
(General), Standards and Codes for Practice, mentions the following: 
“ 
(2) The equipment including overhead lines and cables shall comply with the 
relevant Indian Standards, British Standard (BS), or International 
Electrotechnical Commission 
(IEC) Standard, or American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or any other 
equivalent International Standard: 
Provided that whenever an International Standard or International Electro 
technical Commission Standard is followed, necessary corrections or 
modifications shall be made for nominal system frequency, nominal system 
voltage, ambient temperature, humidity and other conditions prevailing in India 
before actual adoption of the said Standard. 
(3) The effects of wind, storms, floods, lightening, elevation, temperature 
extremes, icing, contamination, pollution and earthquakes must be 
considered in the design and 
operation of the connected facilities.” 
The BESS, therefore, shall be designed keeping in view the ambient temperature and 
weather conditions prevailing at site i.e. The BESS shall be able to deliver rated  
performance at the extreme temperature and weather conditions at site where it is 
deployed. 
In this regard, the procedure notified by CEA on 8th April 2024 for assessment of 
the “Design Temperature for RE Plants in compliance to CEA (Technical 
Standards for Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations” shall be followed. Same is 
available at: https://cea.nic.in/whats-new/?lang=en 
 
2. System Testing and Commissioning 
The BESS shall be commissioned as per commissioning criteria and procedures specified by 
the CEA. 
3. Identification and Traceability 
Cells/Racks/Packs Assembly shall meet seismic requirement for the plant location of the 
BESS. Labelling of cells/batteries shall include manufacturer’s name, cell type, name -plate 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 117 of 138 
 
rating, date of manufacture and date of expiry of parts and labour warranty. 
4. Other Sub-systems/Components 
Other subsystems/components used in the BESS must also conform to the relevant 
international/national Standards for Electrical Safety for ensuring Expected Service Life and 
Weather Resistance. 
5. Fire Protection 
The BESSD shall design and install a fire protection system that conforms to national and 
local codes. The fire protection system design and associated alarms shall take into account 
that the BESS will be unattended at most times. For high energy density technologies, the 
BESSD shall also obtain thermal runaway characterization of the battery storage systems.  
As Battery Energy Storage System is prone to fire hazard, the BESSD shall provide suitable 
means such as fire barrier between switchyard and BESS to avoid fire to spread from BESS 
to Yard equipment. The safety of the equipment / personnel related to BESS operations will 
be in the scope of the BESSD. KSEBL will in no way be responsible for any loss / damage 
due to any fire accidents. Fire Hydrant system with approval from Fire Force Department, 
Kerala shall be installed in the BESS area. The BESS container area shall be fitted with High 
mast Thermal & Surveillance Camera and streaming of the same shall be provided at 
Control Room of 220kV Brahmapuram Sub Station in BESSD’s scope. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 118 of 138 
 
6. Authorized Test Centres 
 
Batteries/ Power Conditioning Units deployed in the power plants must have valid test 
certificates for their qualification as per above specified IEC/ BIS Standards by one of the ILAC 
member signatory accredited laboratories. In case of module types/ BESS/equipment for 
which such Test facilities may not exist in India at present, test certificates from reputed ILAC 
Member body accredited Labs abroad will be acceptable. 
 
7. Warranty 
BESSD shall procure performance guarantees from the OEM to ensure minimum performance 
levels for predefined application(s) as per the terms of the RfS. The Warranty shall clearly 
indicate life expectancy given discharge profiles provided for the application. 
8. Performance Monitoring 
 
As part of the performance monitoring, the following shall be carried out: 
a) The BESSD must install necessary equipment to continuously measure BESS operating 
parameters (including but not limited to voltage, current, ambient conditions etc.) as well 
as energy input into and energy output from the BESS along with Metering arrangement 
in accordance with extant regulations. They will be required to submit this data to KSEBL 
or SLDC on line and/or through a report on regular basis every month for the entire 
duration of contract. 
b) The BESSD shall provide access to the KSEBL/MNRE/MOP/CEIG/CERC/KSERC or 
their authorized  representatives for installing any additional monitoring equipment to 
facilitate on-line transfer of data. 
c) All data shall be made available as mentioned above for the entire duration/ extended 
duration of the Contract. 
d) The plant SCADA should be OPC version 2.0a (or a later version including OPC UA) 
compliant and implement appropriate OPC -DA server as per the specification of OPC 
Foundation. All data should be accessible through this OPC server for providing real time 
online data (BESS parameters) to the KSEBL/SLDC/MNRE. This time series data shall 
be available from the Project SCADA system to facilitate monitoring and should include  
among others as stated before, below parameters to facilitate daily, monthly and annual 
Report for performance monitoring. 
e) Web-based monitoring should be available at Kerala SLDC at Kalamassery, which should 
not be machine dependent. The web-based monitoring should provide the same screens 
as available in the plant. Also, it should be possible  to download reports  from a remote 
web-client in PDF or Excel format. 
 
9. Other necessary criteria 
 
Central Electricity Authority, Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid, 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013 and 2019 mention connectivity standards 
applicable to the wind generating stations, generating stations using inverters, 
wind - solar photo voltaic hybrid systems and energy storage systems. BESS, 
being an inverter based power system element, shall also comply to the 
requirements specified for other generating stations using inverters. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 119 of 138 
 
Some of the requirements are indicated below and following shall be added 
separately in the “Technical and Regulatory Requirements to be followed by 
Battery Energy Storage System”: 
 
a) BESS shall be capacity of operating in the frequency range of 47.5 Hz 
to 52 Hz and be able to deliver rated output in the frequency range of 
49.5 Hz to 50.5 Hz. 
b) Low / High Voltage Ride Through (LVRT/ HVRT): BESS shall be 
capacity of operating when voltage at the inter connection point on 
any or all phases dips/rises to the high or low levels. The levels 
applicable for wind/solar inverter -based generation  may be referred 
as available in Central Electricity Authority (Technical Standards for 
Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations. 
c) Dynamic Reactive Power Support / Voltage Control - BESS shall 
have the feature to detect and regulate the voltage of interconnection 
point as per the specified capabilityi.e. The BESS shall be capable of 
supplying dynamically varying reactive power support at least up to 
the limits specified for wind/solar generation sources (inverter -based) 
in the Central Electricity Authority (Technical Standards for 
Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations. The response time of the BESS 
shall not exceed the value specified in relevant standards or grid 
codes. 
d) Primary Frequency Control – The BESS shall have provisions for 
Primary Frequency Control with a droop which can be set as per 
system requirement between the range specified for wind/solar 
generation sources (inverter-based) in the Central Electricity Authority 
(Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations. BESS 
to be implemented shall have provisions for Primary frequency control 
with a droop which can be set as per system requirement between 1 -3 
percent. The BESS performs regulations in one or several pre -defined 
ways (e.g. regulating its own output power according to the orders 
given by SCADA system) to achieve an active power balance between 
generation and demand to maintain the power system frequency 
within a reasonable range. 
e) BESS shall be capable to receive active power/reactive power set 
point from load dispatch centers i.e. SLDC/RLDC. 
f) The BESS shall have the capability for synthetic inertia, black start 
and intentional island control capability to extend start-up of a blackout 
system or to operate independently after formation of an island. 
g) BESS shall operate in a manner to promote the power system 
reliability and  improve the power quality. When power quality 
problems, such as voltage dip, flicker,  unsatisfactory power factor, 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 120 of 138 
 
etc., occur in power system, the BESS could eliminate these 
problems by flexible active and reactive power output in this function. 
h) The BESS shall provide reliable protection and not be limited to as an 
over voltage/under -voltage protection, over current protection, low -
temperature/over- temperature protection of battery, DC insulation 
monitoring, etc. 
BESS is required to have the following basic functions : 
i) Monitoring: Monitor operational parameters, equipment status 
and communication status, alarm and faults of main equipment 
and BESS system, etc. 
ii) Information exchange:  Receive and process information with 
SLDC /RLDC/NLDC including operation parameters, switching 
information, various alarms and alerts, protective action signals, 
control information, etc. 
iii) Control: Including control mode and parameter setting with  
SLDC/RLDC/NLDC. 
i)  BESS shall have capability to operate in AGC. The details regarding AGC 
signals required by not limited to, are given (the 
conventional power plant signal link) at the link, 
https://posoco.in/download/detailed-signal-list-for-connecting-generators-under- 
agc/?wpdml=29546. 
j) BESS shall be able to operate in AGC and be able to comply with the 
requirements desired by system operators. Some of the BESS signal 
list for implementation of AGC can be like below (list is indicative 
only): 
I. Maximum MW permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
II. Minimum MW permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
III. Ramp rate up permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
IV. Ramp rate down permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
V. Actual MW 
VI. Actual MVAR 
VII. Auxiliary Consumption MW 
VIII. Scheduled MW (dynamic or user entry) 
IX. BESS Temperature (for monitoring and correlation) 
X. Ambient Temperature (for monitoring and correlation) 
XI. Cycle limits (0-100%) per day (user entry) 
XII. Circuit breaker status 
XIII. Local/Remote status 
XIV. AGC Set Point MW from NLDC to BESS 
XV. Voltage (kV) at grid level 
XVI. Voltage (V) at BESS LV side 
 
k) The static information like detailed write -up on present operation methodology of 
BESS, forbidden zones, number of cycle limits, Auxiliary  consumption details, 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 121 of 138 
 
capability curve, simulation models (RMS/PSCAD) along with description or any 
specific information about BESS shall also be furnished as and when required by 
SLDC/RLDC/NLDC. 
l) In addition to the above, the Project Capacity shall also respond to secondary and 
Tertiary control signals from the Nodal Agency for providing SRAS -UP, TRAS-
UP and SRAS-Down, TRAS-UP services as defined under the Central Electricity 
Regulatory Commission (Ancillary Services) Regulations, 2021. The performance 
monitoring and incentives, if any for the SRAS/TRAS shall be in accordance with 
the extant Regulations for Ancillary Services. 
m) BESS will ensure the compliance of requirements mentioned in procedure of First 
Time Charging (FTC) as applicable for other power system elements. The 
consolidated FTC procedure including the requirements for BESS is available in 
public domain at https://posoco.in/wp - 
content/uploads/2021/04/Procedure_for_Integration_of_Power_System_Elements
.pdf 
 
10. Safe Disposal of unit Batteries from the BESS 
The Developer will comply with the requirements under Hazardous & other Waste 
(Management and Trans boundary Movement) Rules, 2016, as amended from time 
to time, and Battery Waste Management Rules, 2022 on 24
th 
August, 2022, as 
amended from time to time, as applicable. The BESSD shall ensure that all Unit 
Battery modules from the plant after their ‘end of life’ (when they become defective/ 
non-operational/ non -repairable) are disposed in accordance with the “e -waste 
(Management and Handling) Rules, 2016 and Battery Waste Management Rules, 
2022” notified by the Government and as revised and amended from time to time and 
Battery Waste Management Rules, as and when notified by the Government of India. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 122 of 138 
 
Annexure-B 
CHECK LIST FOR FINANCIAL CLOSURE 
(To be signed by the Authorized signatory of the BESSD) 
(RfS No. dated ) 
Last Date for submission of documents related to Financial Closure –   
(9 months from Effective Date of BESPA) 
 
Project Company Name    
Project ID:-  
LOA No. -  .  Dtd. -  
Effective Date of BESPA -    
Scheduled Commissioning Date: -   
1.0 Financial Closure - (Clause 23 of the RfS, including subsequent amendments &  
clarifications) 
 
Details Presently given in BESPA 
Location  
 
Technology 
 
Certificate from all 
financial institutions 
In case of tie up through Bank / Financial Institutions: - 
 Document from Bank / Financial Institutions certifying 
 arrangement of necessary funds by way of sanction of Loan (to be 
 enclosed as Annexure-I). 
 In case of Internal Resources: - 
 Copy of Board Resolution, Audited/Certified Balance sheet, Profit 
 & Loss Account Statement, Bank Statement and Cash Flow 
 Statement in support of availability of Internal resources of the 
 Project Company and of the Company other than Project 
 Company (in case the required funding will be raised from 
 Company other than Project Company) (to be enclosed as 
 Annexure-I). 
 Performa for the cases where funding will be from Company other 
 than Project Company is at ‘A-1’. 
Note:- 
(i) Copy of Final Detailed Project Report (DPR) is to be enclosed as Annexure – II A. 
(ii) Undertaking by the Project Company that all Consents, clearances and permits required for 
implementing the Project as per the terms of BESPA have been obtained is to be enclosed as 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 123 of 138 
 
Annexure – II B 
 
2.0 Copy of Agreement/ MOU entered into / Purchase Order with acceptance, for the supply 
of Plants and Equipment (to be enclosed as Annexure-III) 
3.0 Technical Parameters of the Project (Clause 39 of the RfS) 
 
3.0.1 Certificate from Project Company that Technical specifications and directives given in 
Annexure-A of the RfS will be adhered to (to be enclosed as Annexure-IV A) 
3.0.2 Proposed Project configuration as part of DPR of the Project (to be enclosed as 
Annexure-IV B) 
 
4.0 Ownership of the BESSD: Latest Shareholding Pattern of the Project Company 
(including Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCDs), Compulsorily Convertible 
Preferential Shares (CCPS) of the Project Company certified by Chartered Accountant (to 
be enclosed as Annexure V A) 
 
Shareholding pattern is not required to be submitted by a Listed Company. 
 
Note: Shareholding pattern is to be submitted by the Project Company, as and when 
requisitioned by the Procurer. 
 
5.0 The above checklist is to facilitate financial closure of projects. For any interpretation the 
respective provision of RfS / BESPA shall prevail. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 124 of 138 
 
 
 
 
 
General 
 
 
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS FOR 
e-TENDERING AND REVERSE AUCTION 
Annexure - C 
The Special Instructions (for e-Tendering) supplement ‘Instruction to Bidders’, as given in 
these Tender Documents. Submission of Online Bids is mandatory for this Tender. 
E-Tendering is a new methodology for conducting Public Procurement in a transparent and 
secured manner. Now, the Government of India has made e-tendering mandatory. 
Suppliers/ Vendors will be the biggest beneficiaries of this new system of procurement. For 
conducting electronic tendering, NVVN has decided to use the portal https://www.bharat- 
electronictender.com through ISN ElectronicTender Services Private Limited (referred as 
ISN- ETS). This portal is based on the world’s most ‘secure’ and ‘user friendly’ software from 
ElectronicTender®. A portal built using ElectronicTender’s software is also referred to as 
ElectronicTender System® (ETS). 
Benefits to Suppliers are outlined on the Homepage of the portal. 
Instructions 
Note on ETS BD-CR: 
In order to participate in this Tender, each Bidder would have to deposit towards ‘Application 
Charges for Bidders’ an amount equal to Rs 400/MW (Excluding GST) with the Service 
Provider of Bharat-Electronic Tender Portal [ETS], ie ISN Electronic Tender Services Pvt Ltd 
(ISN-ETS), as per instructions given on ETS. In ETS, this amount is referred to as ‘ETS 
Bidding-Deposit Conditionally Refundable (ETS BD-CR)’ and is calculated @ Rs. 400/- per 
MW plus GST for the Capacity for which the bidder is submitting the quote. 
The amount can be paid online through the following methods: 
1. SBI Payment Gateway facility available on ETS portal 
2. NEFT/RTGS to the following account: 
Beneficiary Name: ISN Electronic Tender Services Pvt. Ltd. 
A/C No.: 661405601452 
Branch: ICICI Bank, Central Arcade, DLF City, Phase-II, Gurgaon - 122002 
IFSC Code: ICIC0006614 
Account Type: Current Account 
On the ‘Date of Bid Finalization’, ie the date on which written communication is received by 
the Service/ Portal Provider of ETS from the Buyer Organization/ Auctioneer (ie NVVN LTD.) 
about the successful/ unsuccessful Bidders, ETS BD-CR amount corresponding to the 
quantity allocated/ awarded to that successful Bidder will be retained by the Service/ Portal 
provider of ETS and treated as ‘ETS Bidding-Fee’ (including GST), and the balance amount 
(without any interest) will be refunded by Service/ Portal Provider. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 125 of 138 
 
Similarly, for unsuccessful Bidders, the full ETS BD-CR (without any interest) will be 
refunded within Seven (7) working days from the date of receipt of written communication by 
the Service/ Portal Provider of ETS from the Buyer Organization/ Auctioneer (ie NVVN 
LTD.). 
Invoicing & TDS deduction after the final outcome of the bidding process/ e-Auction: 
Case-1 (Unsuccessful Bidder): In case the bidder does not win any capacity, the full BD-CR 
amount shall be refunded and therefore no invoice will be given and will not be subject to 
TDS. 
Case-2 (Successful Bidder): In case the bidder wins a particular capacity, an invoice shall be 
generated @ 400/MW plus GST. The applicable TDS will be calculated on the invoice 
amount and ETS portal Service Provider shall then deposit this TDS amount on behalf of the 
bidder and share a copy of the deposit challan. Subsequently, the remaining BD-CR balance 
shall be refunded, if any. 
Note: The bidder must email a copy of the transaction summary and TAN Number 
to support@isn-ets.com with the "Subject: ’Bidders Name’ - Payment for NVVN Ltd Tender 
ETS- BDCR" 
Tender Bidding Methodology: Sealed Bid System 
- Single Stage Two Envelope 
 
 
Auction 
The sealed bid system would be followed by an ‘e-ReverseAuction’ 
Broad Outline of Activities from Bidder’s Perspective: 
1. Procure a Class-III Digital Signing Certificate (DSC) 
2. Register on ElectronicTender System® (ETS) 
3. Create Marketing Authorities (MAs), Users and assign roles on ETS. It is mandatory 
to create at least one MA. 
4. View Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) on ETS 
5. For this tender -- Assign Tender Search Code (TSC) to an MA 
6. Download Official Copy of Tender Documents from ETS. Note: Official copy of 
Tender Documents is distinct from downloading ‘Free Copy of Tender Documents’. To 
participate in a tender, it is mandatory to procure official copy of Tender Documents for that 
tender. 
7. Clarification to Tender Documents on ETS 
– Query to NVVN Limited ( optional) 
– View response to queries posted by NVVN Limited 
8. Bid-Submission on ETS 
9. Post-TOE Clarification on ETS (Optional) 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 126 of 138 
 
– Respond to NVVN Post-TOE queries 
10. Participate in e-Reverse Auction on ETS 
For participating in this tender online, the following instructions are to be read carefully. 
These instructions are supplemented with more detailed guidelines on the relevant screens 
of the ETS. 
Digital Certificates 
For integrity of data and authenticity/ non-repudiation of electronic records, and to be 
compliant with IT Act 2000, it is necessary for each user to have a Digital Certificate (DC). 
also referred to as Digital Signature Certificate (DSC), of Class-III, issued by a Certifying 
Authority (CA) licensed by Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA) [refer 
http://www.cca.gov.in]. 
Registration 
To use the ElectronicTender® portal https://www.bharat-electronictender.com, vendors need 
to register on the portal. Registration of each organization is to be done by one of its senior 
persons who will be the main person coordinating for the e-tendering activities. In ETS 
terminology, this person will be referred to as the Super User (SU) of that organization. For 
further details, please visit the website/portal, and click on the ‘Supplier Organization’ link 
under ‘Registration’ (on the Home Page), and follow further instructions as given on the site, 
and special instruction given in the RFP in this regard. Pay Annual Registration Fee as 
applicable. 
After successful submission of Registration details and Annual Registration Fee, please 
contact ISN-ETS/ ETS Helpdesk (as given below), to get your registration 
accepted/activated 
Important Note: To minimize teething problems during the use of ETS (including the 
Registration process), it is recommended that the user should peruse the instructions given 
under ‘ETS User- Guidance Center’ located on ETS Home Page, including instructions for 
timely registration on ETS. The instructions relating to ‘Essential Computer Security Settings 
for Use of ETS’ and ‘Important Functionality Checks’ should be especially taken into 
cognizance. 
Please note that even after acceptance of your registration by the Service Provider, to 
respond to a tender you will also require time to complete activities related to your 
organization, such as creation of users, assigning roles to them, etc. 
ISN-ETS/ ETS Helpdesk 
Telephone/ Mobile Customer Support: +91-124 - 4229071, 4229072 
[Between 9:00 am to 6:00 pm IST on all working days] 
E-mail ID support@isn-ets.com 
[Please mark CC: support@electronictender.com] 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 127 of 138 
 
Some Bidding related Information for this Tender (Sealed Bid) 
The entire bid-submission would be online on ETS (unless specified for Offline 
Submissions). Broad outline of submissions are as follows: 
 Online Payment of Applicable ETS Bidding-Fee (if applicable) 
Note: Failure to pay this amount will result in rejection of the bid. 
 Submission of Bid-Parts/ Envelopes 
 Prequalification Application 
 Technical-Part 
 Financial-Part 
 Submission of information pertaining Bid Security/ Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) 
 Submission of digitally signed copy of RfS, PPA & Addendums 
Offline Submissions: 
The bidder is requested to submit the following documents offline to the under mentioned 
address before the start of Public Online Tender Opening Event in a Sealed Envelope. 
The envelope shall bear (the project name), the tender number and the words ‘DO NOT 
OPEN BEFORE’ (due date & time). 
1. Original copy of the Bid Security in the form of a Bank Guarantee. 
2. DD/ Bankers cheque of Rs …… drawn in favour of , NVVN Limited, payable at New 
Delhi against payment of Bid Processing Fee. 
Note: The Bidder should also upload the scanned copies of all the above-mentioned original 
documents as Bid-Annexures during Online Bid-Submission. 
Special Note on Security and Transparency of Bids 
Security related functionality has been rigorously implemented in ETS in a multi-dimensional 
manner. Starting with 'Acceptance of Registration by the Service Provider', provision for 
security has been made at various stages in ElectronicTender's software. Specifically, for 
Bid Submission some security related aspects are outlined below: 
As part of the ElectronicEncrypter® functionality, the contents of both the ‘ElectronicForms®’ 
and the ‘Main-Bid’ are securely encrypted using a Pass-Phrase created by the Bidder 
himself. Unlike a ‘password’, a Pass-Phrase can be a multi-word sentence with spaces 
between words (eg I love this World). A Pass-Phrase is easier to remember, and more 
difficult to break. It is mandatory that a separate Pass-Phrase be created for each Bid-Part. 
This method of bid-encryption does not have the security and data-integrity related 
vulnerabilities which are inherent in e-tendering systems which use Public-Key of the 
specified officer of a Buyer organization for bid-encryption. Bid-encryption in ETS is such 
that the Bids cannot be decrypted before the Public Online Tender Opening Event (TOE), 
even if there is connivance between the concerned tender-opening officers of the Buyer 
organization and the personnel of e-tendering service provider. This is an 

 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 128 of 138 
 
additional reason why a Bidder using ETS need not take the risk of trying to submit his bid 
near the ‘Last Date and Time o Receipt of Bids’, and can comfortably do so well in advance. 
CAUTION: All bidders must fill ElectronicForms® for each bid-part sincerely and carefully, 
and avoid any discrepancy between information given in the ElectronicForms® and the 
corresponding Main-Bid. For transparency, the information submitted by a bidder in the 
ElectronicForms® is made available to other bidders during the Online Public TOE. If it is 
found during the Online Public TOE that a bidder has not filled in the complete information in 
the ElectronicForms®, the TOE officer may make available for downloading the 
corresponding Main- Bid of that bidder at the risk of the bidder. If variation is noted between 
the information contained in the ElectronicForms® and the ‘Main-Bid’, the contents of the 
ElectronicForms® shall prevail. 
Typically, ‘Pass-Phrase’ of the Bid-Part to be opened during a particular Public Online 
Tender Opening Event (TOE) is furnished online by each bidder during the TOE itself, when 
demanded by the concerned Tender Opening Officer. 
(Optional Text depending upon the decision of the NVVN Limited): 
Additionally, the bidder shall make sure that the Pass-Phrase to decrypt the relevant Bid- 
Part is submitted to NVVN Limited Name in a sealed envelope before the start date and time 
of the Tender Opening Event (TOE). 
There is an additional protection with SSL Encryption during transit from the client-end 
computer of a Supplier organization to the e-tendering server/ portal. 
Some Bidding related Information for this Tender (e-ReverseAuction) 
e-ReverseAuction would be conducted after the opening of the Prequalification/ Financial- 
Part. The following would be parameters for e-ReverseAuction: 
SNo Parameter Value 
1 Date and Time of Reverse-Auction Bidding 
Event Will be intimated to the responsive 
bidders later. 
2 Duration of Reverse-Auction Bidding Event 120 Minutes 
3 Automatic extension of the ‘Reverse- 
Auction Closing Time’, if last bid received is 
within a ‘Pre-defined Time-Duration’ 
before the ‘Reverse-Auction Closing Time’  Yes 
3.1 Pre-defined Time-Duration 10 Minutes 
3.2 Automatic extension Time-Duration 10 Minutes 
4 Criteria of Bid-Acceptance Bidder can go on decreasing his own bid value without 
taking into cognizance the 
starting point or Rank 1 bid. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 129 of 138 
 
5 Entity – Start-Price VCNG quoted by the bidders in financial 
bid ( Second Envelope) 
6 Minimum Bid-Decrement 0.01 Rupees 
Any special instructions to be inserted by the Buyer Organization Name for that particular 
Auction: 
(Example-1): Only ‘n-1’ lowest bidders from the Financial-Bid opening round will be invited 
for e- Reverse Auction …; Reserve Price for the auction will be the lowest price obtained in 
the financial-bid round, …any ‘Special Processes incorporated in this e-ReverseAuction’. 
(Example-2): Similarly, Buyer organization to outline here ‘specific rules and criteria’ relevant 
to this particular e-ReverseAuction. If the e-ReverseAuction involves special processes 
(such as Categorization of bidders, Loading related to Price Preference, VGF, etc), it is 
recommended that the Buyer organization gives in Tender Documents here an example of 
the use of rules and criteria. …. etc. 
 
 
Other Instructions 
For further instructions, the vendor should visit the homepage of the portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com, and go to the User-Guidance Center 
The help information provided through ‘ETS User-Guidance Center’ is available in three 
categories – Users intending to Register / First-Time Users, Logged-in users of Buyer 
organizations, and Logged-in users of Supplier organizations. Various links (including links 
for User Manuals) are provided under each of the three categories. 
 
 
Important Note: It is strongly recommended that all authorized users of Supplier 
organizations should thoroughly peruse the information provided under the relevant links, 
and take appropriate action. This will prevent hiccups, and minimize teething problems 
during the use of ETS. 
SEVEN CRITICAL DO’S AND DON’TS FOR BIDDERS 
Specifically, for Supplier organizations, the following 'SEVEN KEY INSTRUCTIONS for 
BIDDERS' must be assiduously adhered to: 
1. Obtain individual Digital Signing Certificate (DSC or DC) of Class-III, well in advance 
of your first tender submission deadline on ETS 
2. Register your organization on ETS well in advance of the important deadlines for 
your first tender on ETS viz ‘Date and Time of Closure of Procurement of Tender 
Documents’ and ‘Last Date and Time of Receipt of Bids’. Please note that even after 
acceptance of your registration by the Service Provider, to respond to a tender you will also 
require time to complete activities related to your organization, such as creation of -- 
Marketing Authority (MA) [ie a department within the Supplier/ Bidder Organization 
responsible for responding to tenders], users for one or more such MAs, assigning roles to 
them, etc. It is mandatory to create at least one MA. This unique feature of creating an  MA 
enhances security and accountability within the Supplier/ Bidder Organization. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 130 of 138 
 
3. Get your organization's concerned executives trained on ETS well in advance of your 
first tender submission deadline on ETS 
4. For responding to any particular tender, the tender (ie its Tender Search Code or 
TSC) has to be assigned to an MA. Further, an ‘Official Copy of Tender Documents’ should 
be procured/ downloaded before the expiry of Date and Time of Closure of Procurement of 
Tender 
Documents. Note: Official copy of Tender Documents is distinct from downloading ‘Free 
Copy of Tender Documents’. Official copy of Tender Documents is the equivalent of 
procuring physical copy of Tender Documents with official receipt in the paper-based manual 
tendering system. 
5. Submit your bids well in advance of tender submission deadline on ETS (There could 
be last minute problems due to internet timeout, breakdown, et al) 
Note: Bid-submission in ETS can consist of submission of multiple bid-components, which 
vary depending upon the situation and requirements of the Buyer. Successful receipt of a bid 
in an e-tendering scenario takes place if all the required bid-components are successfully 
‘received and validated’ in the system (ETS) within the scheduled date and time of closure of 
bidding (On some ETS screens, this is also referred to as ‘Last Date and Time of Receipt of 
Bids’). ETS/ Service Provider is not responsible for what happens at an end-user’s end, or 
while a submission made by an end-user is in transit, until the submission is successfully 
‘received and validated’ in ETS. When a bid-component receipt and validation is successful, 
it is recorded in the ETS Audit Trail Report, which is generated by ETS. In case of any 
uncertainty, the application audit trail generated by ETS (ETS Audit Trail Report) shall be the 
final record/evidence for reference regarding the ‘successful bid receipt’. 
6. It is the responsibility of each bidder to remember and securely store the Pass - 
Phrase for each Bid-Part submitted by that bidder. In the event of a bidder forgetting the 
Pass-Phrase before the expiry of deadline for Bid -Submission, facility is provided to the 
bidder to ‘Annul Previous Submission’ from the Bid-Submission Overview page and start 
afresh with new Pass- Phrase(s) 
7. ETS will make your bid available for opening during the Online Public Tender 
Opening Event (TOE) ‘ONLY IF’ your ‘Status pertaining Overall Bid -Submission’ is 
‘Complete’. For your record, you can generate and save a copy of ‘Final Submission 
Receipt’. This receipt can be generated from 'Bid-Submission Overview Page' only if the 
‘Status pertaining overall Bid-Submission’ is ‘Complete’. 
NOTE: 
While the first three instructions mentioned above are especially relevant to first-time users 
of ETS, the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh instructions are relevant at all times. 
Additional DO’S AND DON’TS FOR BIDDERS Participating in e-ReverseAuction 
1. Get your organization's concerned executives trained for e-ReverseAuction related 
processes on ETS well in advance of the start of e-ReverseAuction. 
2. For responding to any particular e-ReverseAuction, the e-ReverseAuction (ie its 
Reverse Auction Search Code or RASC) has to be assigned to an MA. 
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 131 of 138 
 
3. It is important for each bidder to thoroughly read the ‘rules and related criterion’ for 
the e- ReverseAuction as defined by the Buyer organization. 
Note: To participate in e-ReverseAuction, the ETS Bidding-Fee for e-ReverseAuction should 
be paid before the ‘Date and Time of Start of Reverse-Auction’. In case ETS Bidding-Fee for 
e- ReverseAuction is sent offline to the Auctioneer or ETS Service Provider, it is important 
for the bidder to ensure that the Auctioneer/ ETS Service Provider has received the ETS 
Bidding-Fee for e-ReverseAuction and also entered the related details in ETS. When the 
Auctioneer/ ETS Service Provider enters the details, the bidder should receive an e-mail 
acknowledgement. If ETS Bidding-Fee for e-ReverseAuction status of the bidder is not 
updated as outlined above, the bidder would not be able to participate in the Auction. 
4. During an e -auction, it is recommended that a bidder submits a bid well before the 
scheduled time of ‘Date and Time of Closure of Reverse -Auction’. Submission of a bid near 
the closing time of an auction may result in failure due to any of the various factors at that 
instant, such as – slow internet speed at the bidder’s end, slow running of computer at 
bidder’s end, nervousness of the bidder in the last few seconds, etc. This could lead to a 
delay in submission of data from the bidder’s computer to the server. Even if the delay is of a 
fraction of second after the scheduled closing time, it will result in failure of bid submission. 
Further, please note that a bid can be submitted even if the bidding page has not been 
refreshed manually, or otherwise depending on the conditions of the e-auction. 
Note: Successful receipt of Bid in an e-auction scenario takes place if the bid is successfully 
‘received and validated’ in the system (ETS) within the scheduled date and time of closure of 
bidding (On some ETS screens, this is also referred to as ‘Date and Time of Closure of 
Reverse-Auction’, or Forward-Auction, as the case may be). End Users shall be solely 
responsible for ensuring timely submission of their respective bids such that the bids are 
successfully received in ETS as stated above. ETS/ Service Provider is not responsible for 
what happens at an end-user’s end, or while a submission made by an end-user is in transit, 
until the submission is successfully ‘received and validated’ in ETS. When a bid is 
successfully ‘received and validated’, it is recorded in the ETS Audit Trail Report, which is 
generated by ETS. In case of any uncertainty, the application audit trail generated by ETS 
(ETS Audit Trail Report) shall be the final record/evidence for reference regarding the 
‘successful bid receipt’. 
5. It is important to digitally-sign your ‘Final bid’ after the end of e-Reverse Auction 
bidding event. 
Minimum Requirements at Bidder’s End 
Computer System having configuration with minimum Windows 7 or above, and Broadband 
connectivity Microsoft Internet Explorer 7.0 or above, or Edge with Internet Explorer mode 
Digital Certificate(s)
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 132 of 138 
 
Annexure - D 
ILLUSTRATIONS 
(Please refer Clause 8 of the RfS) 
 
a. System Availability 
Under a BSSPA between an off-taker ‘X’ and BESSD ‘Y’ for a capacity ‘C’, the Schedule 
and Actual Injection into/Drawl from the Grid from the Project, as per the DSM/ UI Reports 
published by the SLDC for a Sample day is shown below: 
 
  
 
 
date 
 
 
 
block 
Drawl 
(from Grid) 
MW 
(Charging) 
(X) 
Injection (into 
Grid) MW 
(Discharging) (Y) 
 
Scheduled 
Mus 
(Z) 
Time-block 
Availability, 
(TA) 
=(Xi/Zi)  or 
(Yi/Zi) 
 
01-May-28 1 250 0 250 1 
01-May-28 2 250 0 250 1 
01-May-28 3 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 4 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 5 235 0 250 0.94 
01-May-28 6 235 0 250 0.94 
01-May-28 7 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 8 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 9 0 0 12.5 0 
01-May-28 10 12.5 0 0 0 
01-May-28 11 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 12 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 13 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 14 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 15 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 16 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 17 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 18 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 19 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 20 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 21 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 22 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 23 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 24 0 190 250 0.76 
01-May-28 25 0 190 250 0.76 
01-May-28 26 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 27 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 28 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 29 0 200 250 0.8 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 133 of 138 
 
01-May-28 30 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 31 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 32 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 33 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 34 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 35 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 36 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 37 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 38 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 39 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 40 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 41 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 42 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 43 12.5 0 12.5 1 
 
 
01-May-28 44 245 0 250 0.98 
 
 
01-May-28 45 240 0 250 0.96 
 
 
01-May-28 46 240 0 250 0.96 
 
 
01-May-28 47 235 0 250 0.94 
 
 
01-May-28 48 240 0 250 0.96 
 
 
01-May-28 49 250 0 250 1 
 
 
01-May-28 50 250 0 250 1 
 
 
01-May-28 51 250 0 250 1 
 
 
01-May-28 52 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 53 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 54 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 55 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 56 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 57 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 58 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 59 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 60 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 61 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 62 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 63 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 64 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 65 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 66 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 67 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 68 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 69 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 70 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 134 of 138 
 
 
01-May-28 71 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 72 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 73 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 74 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 75 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 76 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 77 250 0 250 1 
 
 
01-May-28 78 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 79 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 80 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 81 0 230 250 0.92 
 
 
01-May-28 82 0 235 250 0.94 
 
 
01-May-28 83 0 235 250 0.94 
 
 
01-May-28 84 0 230 250 0.92 
 
 
01-May-28 85 0 200 250 0.8 
 
 
01-May-28 86 0 190 250 0.76 
 
 
01-May-28 87 0 185 250 0.74 
 
 
01-May-28 88 0 230 250 0.92 
 
 
01-May-28 89 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 90 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 91 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 92 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 93 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 94 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 95 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
01-May-28 96 0 0 0 NA 
 
 
Total  3905 3295 8025 29.7 
 
 
  No of Block with Active Charging 20 
 
 
  SYSTEM AVAIL ABILITY during Charging 
period 
0.87 
 
 
Note: For calculating the System Availability for day/month, schedule provided by 
Procure/SLDC to  be considered.  Shortfall in System Availability  will be  
calculated as per below methodology. DSM / UI charges shall be treated 
separately as per applicable regulations and paid by BESSD. 
If KSEBL has scheduled for charging of BESS & discharge of BESS and BESSD 
has not charge & discharge the BESS according to schedule then TA will be 
calculated as TA= (X/Z)+(Y/Z) for that time block. 
If KSEBL has not scheduled for charging of BESS & discharge of BESS  and if 
BESS performs charging or discharging  then TA will be 0 (zero)  for that time 
block. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 135 of 138 
 
Any discharge/ injection to the grid without scheduling by KSEBL is not allowed 
and will not be considered as discharge/ injection from BESS. 
i is the ith Time block in the day. 
The System Availability for the day is calculated as the mean of Column 
TA, for all time- blocks where Column Z is not zero. 
Further any drawl/ injection without scheduling will be treated as zero availability. 
From the above table, Day’s System Availability for charging period= 0.87 
Similarly, the System availability shall be calculated for Monthly, 2880 time-blocks 
(96*30) in a Month (31 Days in a month considered in above), excluding time-blocks 
where Grid is unavailable or in case of Force Majeure. 
Assuming the following parameters: 
a. Total Contract Capacity=250 MW,C 
b. Quoted monthly Capacity charges=2 lakhs /MW/month, D 
c. Annual system availability (as per procedure above)is calculated to be 0.87, B 
d. n =12 
 
Liquidated Damages on account of shortage in annual system Availability, as 
calculated from formula provided in Clause 9.2: 
Liquidated damages= (A– B) x C x D x n x 1.5 
=(0.95-0.87) x 250 x 2 x 12 x 1.5 
=720 lakhs  
a. System Efficiency 
 
 
The present illustration is for calculating the Daily System Efficiency as 
demonstration only. The same methodology shall be used for calculation of 
monthly system efficiency as per Clause 9.1.d.3. 
System Efficiency = Total of Column(Y) = 3295 =0.8437~0.84 (rounded off to 2 decimal places) 
Total of Column(X) 3905 
Assuming: 
 
a. Monthly System Efficiency = 0.84, 
b. Total Monthly Drawl form Grid(Charging Power) = 41.1MUs 
 
 
Liquidated Damages is calculated @ APPC tariff for excess loss of energy 
considering expected System Efficiency to be 85% 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 136 of 138 
 
Excess conversion losses = (0.85-0.84) * Total Drawl from the grid in the month 
(i.e., Charging Energy) 
Liquidated Damages for the month=Rs.0.01 x 41.1 x APPC tariff or e.g. Rs. 3.15) 
= Rs 1.295 Millions 
= Rs 12.95 lakhs 
c. Discharge Energy Commitment: 
Scheduled Energy for Discharge = (500 x 1000) x 32 = 16 MU 
Minimum Guaranteed Availability = 95 % 
Discharge Energy Commitment = 15.2 MU 
Say if, Short fall during the month = 0.02 MU 
Liquidated Damages for  
Short fall in Supply of Committed Energy = 0.02 x (AMCP Peak DAM eg.10/-) 
= 0.02 x 10/- 
= 0.2 Million ie Rs. 2 Lakh 
 
 
d. Indicative Methodology for calculation of RtE, when Auxiliary Consumption is drawn 
through the Interconnecting Transformer: 
In cases where the Auxiliary Power is drawn through the Interconnecting Transformer, the 
scheme below can be adopted: 
 
M1 – Main Meter at 220 kV  
M 2 – Meter for measuring Auxiliary Consumption. 
𝑅𝑡𝐸 =  𝑀1𝐸
(𝑀1 𝐼 − 𝑀2) 
Where: M1E – Energy exported to Grid from BESS 
             M1 I – Energy imported to BESS from Grid  

 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 137 of 138 
 
 
Annexure-E 
PROJECT LOCATION DETAILS 
(Bidders are requested to contact the Transmission licensee for further details, if required) 
 
Sr. 
Nos. 
NAME OF 
SUB-STATION 
EVACUATI 
ON 
CAPACITY 
IN MWH 
Voltage 
level in 
KV 
Contact details AREA 
(Acre) 
 
1 
 
220KV SS 
BRAHMAPURA
M 
 
250 
 
220 
Assistant Executive Engineer, 
220kV SS Brahmaouram 
Ph : 944 600 8371 
 
9 
NOTES: 
1. Prospective Bidders can contact and visit  site during 10AM to 5PM on or before  
Pre-bid on their own. 
2. The purpose of site visit is only for assessment of physical site conditions by the 
prospective Bidders. Prospective Bidders shall rely only on written 
clarifications/information/data issued by KSEBL corporate office. KSEBL will not 
be bound to any clarifications/information/data considered by prospective Bidders 
for tendering purpose which are not issued by KSEBL corporate office. 
3. Representatives of prospective Bidders shall obey the safety guidelines during 
the site visit. For not obeying safety guidelines, it is the sole responsibility of the 
visitor for any consequences/eventuality happened at site. 
  
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 250 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Kerala with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-04/2025-26 Page 138 of 138 
 
Annexure-F 
FORMAT FOR COMMISSIONING OF BESS & OTHER DETAILS 
 
 
1. Commissioning procedure of BESS to be followed by BESSD 
2. Commissioning checklist 
3. Synchronization declaration to be submitted by BESSD 
4. Declaration of System Particulars by BESSD 
5. Sample for part/full commissioning certification 
6. Communication parameters required by SLDC 
7. Fire safety wall for protection (As requested by BESSD-for reference) 
SPARE
PALLIKARA # 01 ( 2CEBR # 01 )
PALLIKARA #02 ( 2CEBR #02 )
LOWER PERIYAR #01 ( 2LPBR #01 )
LOWER PERIYAR #02 ( 2LPBR# 02 )
AMBALAMUGAL #02 (2AMBR #02)
AMBALAMUGAL #01 ( 2AMBR #01)
FUTURE
BUS COUPLER
TRANSFER BUS COUPLER
220KV MAIN BUS 1
220KV MAIN BUS 2
TRANSFER BUS
245KV, 1250 A
800/1 800/1
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
3150 A
245KV, 1250 A
800/1
245KV, 1250 A
800/1
40MH
+/- 10%
245KV, 1250 A
800/1
245KV,
1250 A
40MH
+/- 10%
245KV, 1250 A
800/1
245KV,
1250 A ABB
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
TWIN ACSR MOOSE
800/1 800/1
245KV, 1250 A 245KV, 1250 A
198KV, 10KA198KV, 10KA
CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
245KV, 1250 A 245KV, 1250 A
245KV, 1250 A 245KV, 1250 A
800/1-1-1-1-1
198KV, 10KA 198KV, 10KA
220110 kV 3*53.33MVA
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
400/1400/1400/1400/1400/1 400/1400/1
145KV,
1250 A145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV, 1250 A145KV, 1250 A145KV, 1250 A145KV, 1250 A145KV, 1250 A145KV, 1250 A 145KV, 1250 A
TWIN ACSR, KUNDAH
145KV, 1250 A
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
CG
SF6 CB
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
400/1800/1400/1400/1200/1200/1
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
CT
145KV,
1250 A
110/33kV 16MVA
TRANFORMER
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
75/175/1
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
BUS COUPLER
11011KV 12.5 MVA11011KV 12.5 MVA
110KV MAIN BUS 1
110KV MAIN BUS 2
BDPP AUX
KARIMUKAL
EDACHIRA
FRBL
PERINGALA
MANKUZHI
100/1
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
BUS SECTION BAY
INFOPARK(2BRIF)
198KV, 10KA
220 KV  500 mm²
Single core
XLPE Cable
220KV/110V
198KV, 10KA 198KV, 10KA198KV, 10KA 198KV, 10KA
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
245KV,
3150 A
245KV, 1250 A 245KV, 1250 A 245KV, 1250 A
220KV/
110V
220KV/
110V
220KV/
110V
220KV/
110V
220KV/110V
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
245KV,
3150 A
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
110KV/110V
110KV/110V
110KV/110V 110KV/110V 110KV/110V 110KV/110V 110KV/110V 110KV/110V 110KV/110V
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
800 A
145KV,
800 A
145KV,
800 A
1000/11000/1
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
145KV,
1250 A
33KV, 40KA
96KV, 10KA
KADAVANTRA
NEW VYTILLA
VAIKOM
KANDANAD
FACT#01
FACT#02
KALAMASSERY#04
KALAMASSERY#03
KALAMASSERY#02
KALAMASSERY#01
KINFRA#02
KINFRA#01
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
96KV, 10KA 96KV, 10KA 96KV, 10KA 96KV, 10KA 96KV, 10KA 96KV, 10KA 96KV, 10KA
96KV, 10KA 96KV, 10KA
VCB,
12KV
2000A
VCB,
12KV
400A
VCB,
12KV
2000A
VCB,
12KV
2000A
145KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
400/1
145KV,
1250 ASPARE
145KV,
800 A
SYMBOLSDESCRIPTION SYMBOLS DESCRIPTION
CURRENT TRANSFORMER
3 PHASE TRANSFORMER
EARTH SWITCH
 ISOLATOR
PANTOGRAPH
ISOLATOR
SF6 CIRCUIT BREAKER
LIGHTNING ARRESTER
VACUUM CIRCUIT
BREAKER
WAVE TRAP
AUTO TRANSFORMER
CAPACITOR VOLTAGE
TRANSFORMER
SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM OF 220 KV SUBSTATION, BRAHMAPURAM
33KV
ABB
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
  ABB
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
145KV,
1250 A
OLIVE
BRAHMAPURAM
KUSUMAGIRI
SMARTCITY
KADAMPRAYAR 
STATION AUX
CHITRAPUZHA
800/1
1000/1
220KV
11KV 110KV
BUS COUPLER
110 KV BUS FAULT LEVEL- 5776 MVA
220 KV BUS FAULT LEVEL- 10337 MVA
E
N
245KV
1250 A
220KV/110V
1200/1
VCB,
12KV
400A
VCB,
12KV
400A
VCB,
12KV
400A
1600/4-4-1-1
1250 A
KALOOR # 01
800/1 A
245KV, 1250 A 245KV, 1250 A
198KV, 10KA 198KV, 10KA
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
245KV,
1250 A
GE
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
GE
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
BAY 213
KALOOR # 02
BAY 214
BAY 201
BAY 202
BAY 206
BAY 207
BAY 208
BAY 209
BAY 205
BAY 204
BAY 203
BAY 211
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
2500 A
ABB
SF6 CB
1600/4-4-1-1
1600/4-4-1-11600/4-4-1-1
145KV, 1250 A145KV, 1250 A
AUTOTRANSFORMER BANK 1
BAY 210
220110 kV 3*53.33MVA
AUTOTRANSFORMER BANK 2
BAY 212
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
800/1-1-1-1-1
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
245KV,
2500 A
SIEMENS
SF6 CB
145KV,
2500 A
1000/1
245KV
1250 A
800/1 A
11011KV
25MVA
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A 145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
1250 A
CG
SF6 CB
245KV,
1250 A
150/1
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
145KV,
1250 A
110KV/110V
110KV/110V
GT4
GT5
GT1
SPARE GT BAY
150/1150/1 150/1 150/1
11011KV
25MVA
11011KV
25MVA
BDPP YARD
APPRENTICE
2016-17 DRAWN
CHECKED /
APPROVED
DATE
SCALE
APR 24
N  T  S
AEE/SSSD/BRPM
DRG.NO. KSEB/BRPM/220/SLD/REV.04
SUB ENGINEER
MAINTENANCE RE - DRAW
220 KV  1000 mm²
Single core
XLPE Cable
220 KV  1000 mm²
Single core
XLPE Cable
1200/1
145KV, 1250 A
110KV/110V
96KV, 10KA
145KV, 1250 A
110KV/110V
96KV, 10KA
145KV, 1250 A
110KV/110V
96KV, 10KA
145KV, 1250 A
110KV/110V
96KV, 10KA
145KV, 1250 A
110KV/110V
96KV, 10KA
145KV, 1250 A
110KV/110V
96KV, 10KA
145KV, 1250 A
110KV/110V
96KV, 10KA
BHARAT BIJILEE TELK
3C*500 SQ.MM XLPE 3C*500 SQ.MM XLPE
8800 pF
220KV/
110V
220KV/
110V
40333 pF
40333 pF
220KV/
110V
220KV/
110V
8800 pF
SOLAR INCOMER 2.25MW 
33 KV 3 x 300 mm²
XLPE Cable
36KV,
1250 A
DLF1
33 KV 3 x 300 mm²
XLPE Cable
Line isolator
with earth switch
33 KV 3 x 300 mm²
XLPE Cable
Line isolator
with earth switch DLF2
VCB,
36 KV
2000A
COMPRESSOR ROOM 
STORE
STORE 2
PUMP HOUSE
POWER HOUSE  ROAD
 ROAD TO IOC AREA
CAMP OFFICE ROAD
38 LEVEL WATER TANK
ENVIRONMENTAL STATION
GARRAGE
SWITCH ROOM
OFFICE IOC
WEIGH BRIDGE
IOC AREA
LSHS TANK
PUMP HOUSE
MOTOR
OIL TANK
DIESEL TANK
UNLOADING SHED
CIVIL SUBDIVITION
REST ROOM
GENERATOR
 PARKING AREA
OLD CLUB HOUSE
QUARTERSE
CANTEEN
FILTER HOUSE
WATER TANK
STORE YARD
BUILDING
DYCE'S OFFICES
CAR SHED
RECORD ROOM
STORE
220 KV SUB STATION YARD
110 KV SUB STATION YARD
220 K V CONTROLE ROOM
CONTROL ROOM
REST ROOM
REST ROOM
QUARTERSE
QURTERSE
53
ROCKY AREA
AMBIENT STATION 
TRANSFORMER
WATER TANK
DORMITORY
BUILDING
POWER HOUSE
WATER TREATMENT 
WATER TANK
ELECTRICAL WORK 
FUEL TREATMENT AND 
SHED
TANK
PUMP HOUSE
NEW TOWER
LSHS TANK
WATER TANK
TANK
WELL
CAR PARAKING
TOWER
NEW TOWER
BUILDING
NEW TOWER
TOWER
NEW TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
NEW TOWER
TOWER
AMBIENT STATION
WELL
WELL
WELL
WELL
PROPOSED POND
PROPOSED PUMB HOUSE
PROPOSED CHANNEL
OLD BUILDING
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
WELL
WELL
OLD BUILDING
WELL
MOTOR SHED
LSHS BUFFER 
STORAGE TANK
DIESEL OIL
SERVICE TANK
SETTING TANK
LSHS
PLANT POND
TANK
OWS
STORE
CAMP HOUSE
OIL TRANSFER HOUSE
 SHED
TOWER
ROOM
TANK
AND PUMP HOUSE 
SHOP
USED
LUBE OIL STORAGE TANK
+19.050
KAKKANATU
KARIMUGAL
LAND LEASED TO BSNL
SMART CITY AREA
GT
MAIN GATE
PADDY FIELD
PADDY FIELD
GATE HOUSE
QUARRY AREA 0.20 HA 2 ARE 85.57 M2
SHED
SMART CITY AREA
STORE YARD
TANK
TO 220 KV SUBSTATION YARD ROAD 
KADAMBRAYAR
PADDY FIELD
BRIDGE
TOWER
TOWER
TOWER
STEP
TANK
STEP
DORMITORY 2
DORMITORY 1
+23.070
+18.600
TOWER LINE
TOWER LINE
TOWER LINE TOWER LINE
TOWER LINE
TOWER LINE
TOWER LINE
110 KV GT YARD
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
25
26
39
40 41
42
43
44
4547
46
48
49
50
51
52
DRAIN
DRAIN DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
PIPELINE
DAILY
SERVICE TANK
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN DRAINDRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
DRAIN
CONCRETE ROAD
TBM +19.300 
RETAINING WALL
RETAINING WALL
54
DRAIN
DRAIN
FENCINGFENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
FENCING
Lay out Sketch Showing Available land to be utilized for proposed BESS at Brahmapuram Diesel Power Plant 
PHILIPS CARBON PUMP HOUSE
WATER TANK
PROPOSED SUBSTATION EXTENTION
Existing K FONE Cubicle
Available Area-1 
Available  Area at- C 
Available  Area at- D 
Available Area-2 
Available Area-3 
Available Area Calculation
Area at  Plot -C 5350m2
Area at  Plot -D 9600m2
Area at  A1 & A2
Area at  -1 3190m2
Area at  -2 5040m2
Area at  -3 13264m2
Total Area 36444m2
Say 9.00Acre
30m clearance line 
25m clearance line 
Reduced to 25mClearance 
Part C
Part D         Approx: 9 acre
Additional Area if required shall be allotted from Part A1 & A2
 

                                                                                                                                                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marya  Foundations,   
Kaloor, Cochin  
Ph..99951 95228.  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
                       Soil investigation report  for  500mw  BESS 
                          Project at BDPP, Brahmapuram, Kochi, Kerala . 
                          . 
 
                                    MF/932/2025 - ( Bore :  I I ) 
  
                      K.S.E.B,   6.m x 2.5/m  containers  wt.60/Ton 
                       
                         Part - C  ( A ) 
 
                         . 
 
                      BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
 
                         Sep / 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REPORT  ON  SUB SOIL EXPLORATION FOR  PROPOSED  
BUILDING AT BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
   
                                                                                      Job :  MF / 932 / Sep / 2025 (Bore : I I ) 
                                                                                      Ref :  Part - C ( A ) 
I     INTRODUCTION.     
 
       There  is  a  proposed  to  construction for  storage container  unit   
6.m x 2.5/m  container s wt. 60/Ton for  KSEB  soil investigation brahmapuram  site at  
 Kochi, kakkanad .      It  is  decided  to  carry out a  detailed  sub  soil find 
 our investigation to  safe  bearing  capacity  and section  of  appropriate  foundations  for proposed  
building. 
 
    
The  work  was awarded  to M/s.Marya  Foundations,  Kaloor, Cochin Ph..99951 95228.  
A  detailed investigation and laboratory studies were carried out. 
 
This  report  summarizes the subsoil investigations and furnishes the  recommendations 
on the type of the foundations to be provided. 
 
I.1    SCOPE  OF WORK 
 
The scope of work at this site, entrusted  with us comprised of 
 
1.1  Mobilization  of  boring  rigs with  all necessary  equipments  and   skilled/ unskilled   
 personals for the field  work. 
1.2  Boring  one bore  hole of  diameter 150 mm, with  drilling equipments  in latrate,  silt, 
 clay and  gravel to a maximum depth of   12 mts  or till  the spoon  rebound  at  the 
 selected location fixed by the client. 
1.3  Conduction of   Standard  Penetration  tests  in  bore hole at  every 1.50 m depth  or  
 change of strata and prepare bore log showing details. 
1.4  Collection of disturbed samples in air tight polythene bags with proper labeling and  
transportation to laboratory. 
1.5 Conducting the laboratory  tests on  the disturbed  samples  as per  Indian  standards 
 and furnishing the results. 
1.6 Preparation and  submission of  the detailed  report with  field and laboratory results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                              -     2   - 
 
 
II.1      PROGRAM  OF  INVESTIGATION 
 
      FIELD  INVESTIGATION 
 
1.1       One  boring  units with  all  necessary  equipments along with a team of  technical 
            personal with   skilled labours were  mobilized at the work  site. 
 
1.2         One  bore  hole of  150mm was   bored to a depth  suggested  by client, below  the  
              existing  ground  level.  Bore  hole was made as per IS.  1892-1979, using  rotary  
               drilling. 
 
1.3          Representative  samples  were collected at every  1.00mts  intervals depth  change  
            of   strata, whichever is earlier. 
 
1.4          The  samples  collected  were  carefully sealed and  transported  to  laboratory   
                for  tests. 
 
1.5           Standard    Penetration  Tests   were   conducted  at  every   1.50 mts  intervals   
                intervals  after  that,  as per  IS :2131 - 1981.     Before  testing  borehole  was 
                Cleaned  properly  and  Split  Spoon  Sampler is  placed  centrally in bore hole. 
                A  Standard   hammer  of   63.50 kg. is dropped from a  height of   75.cm  and 
                number  of   blows  for  penetration  of  sampler  for  0-15 cm,  15-30cm  and 
                30-45 cm were noted.  Number of  blows required form 15-45 cm penetration  
                is  reported as  N  value. 
 
1.6          Bore hole  was  terminated   after the investigation. 
 
1.7          LABORATORY   INVESTIGATION. 
 
II. 2.1     The  following laboratory  tests  were conducted on the selected samples as  
              relevant   IS  Codes. 
 
a.)     Particle  size  analysis ( IS. 2720-Part 4-1985 ) 
b.)     Water  contents ( IS. 2720-Part 2-1973 ) 
c.)     Bulk density  ( IS.2720-Part  9-1992 ) 
d.)     Specific  Gravity ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
e.)     Direct shear Test  ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
f.)     Liquid  Limit  &  Plastic  Limit ( IS.2720-Part 5-1985 ) 
g.)     Triaxial  Test  ( IS.2720-Part 11-1971 ) 
 
 
 
 
                                               ---------           
 
  
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marya  Foundations,   
Kaloor, Cochin  
Ph..99951 95228.  
                                                                                                                                   
 
 
 
 
  
 
                       Soil investigation report  for  500mw  BESS 
                          Project at BDPP, Brahmapuram, Kochi, Kerala . 
                          . 
 
                                    MF/931/2025 - ( Bore : I  & III ) 
  
                      K.S.E.B,   6.m x 2.5/m  containers  wt.60/Ton 
                       
                         Part - D  ( A &  B) 
 
                         . 
 
                      BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
 
                         Sep / 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
REPORT  ON  SUB SOIL EXPLORATION FOR  PROPOSED  
BUILDING AT BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
   
                                                                                      Job :  MF / 931 / Sep / 2025 (Bore : I & III ) 
                                                                                      Ref :  Part - D ( A & B ) 
                                                                                                        
 
I     INTRODUCTION.     
 
                                   There  is  a  proposed  to  construction for  storage container  unit   
6.m x 2.5/m  container s wt. 60/Ton for  KSEB  soil investigation brahmapuram  site at  
 Kochi, kakkanad .      It  is  decided  to  carry out a  detailed  sub  soil find our investigation 
 to  safe  bearing  capacity  and section  of  appropriate  foundations  for proposed  building. 
 
    
 
The  work  was awarded  to M/s.Marya  Foundations,  Kaloor, Cochin Ph..99951 95228.  
A  detailed investigation and laboratory studies were carried out. 
 
This  report  summarizes the subsoil investigations and furnishes the  recommendations 
on the type of the foundations to be provided. 
 
I.1    SCOPE  OF WORK 
 
The scope of work at this site, entrusted  with us comprised of 
 
1.1  Mobilization  of  boring  rigs with  all necessary  equipments  and   skilled/ unskilled   
 personals for the field  work. 
1.2  Boring  one bore  hole of  diameter 150 mm, with  drilling equipments  in latrate,  silt, 
 clay and  gravel to a maximum depth of   12 mts  or till  the spoon  rebound  at  the 
 selected location fixed by the client. 
1.3  Conduction of   Standard  Penetration  tests  in  bore hole at  every 1.50 m depth  or  
 change of strata and prepare bore log showing details. 
1.4  Collection of disturbed samples in air tight polythene bags with proper labeling and  
transportation to laboratory. 
1.5 Conducting the laboratory  tests on  the disturbed  samples  as per  Indian  standards 
 and furnishing the results. 
1.6 Preparation and  submission of  the detailed  report with  field and laboratory results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                              -     2   - 
 
 
II.1      PROGRAM  OF  INVESTIGATION 
 
      FIELD  INVESTIGATION 
 
1.1       Two  boring  units with  all  necessary  equipments along with a team of  technical 
            personal with   skilled labours were  mobilized at the work  site. 
 
1.2         Two  bore  hole of  150mm was   bored to a depth  suggested  by client, below  the  
              existing  ground  level.  Bore  hole was made as per IS.  1892-1979, using  rotary  
               drilling. 
 
1.3          Representative  samples  were collected at every  1.00mts  intervals depth  change  
            of   strata, whichever is earlier. 
 
1.4          The  samples  collected  were  carefully sealed and  transported  to  laboratory   
                for  tests. 
 
1.5           Standard    Penetration  Tests   were   conducted  at  every   1.50 mts  intervals   
                intervals  after  that,  as per  IS :2131 - 1981.     Before  testing  borehole  was 
                Cleaned  properly  and  Split  Spoon  Sampler is  placed  centrally in bore hole. 
                A  Standard   hammer  of   63.50 kg. is dropped from a  height of   75.cm  and 
                number  of   blows  for  penetration  of  sampler  for  0-15 cm,  15-30cm  and 
                30-45 cm were noted.  Number of  blows required form 15-45 cm penetration  
                is  reported as  N  value. 
 
1.6          Bore hole  was  terminated   after the investigation. 
 
1.7          LABORATORY   INVESTIGATION. 
 
II. 2.1     The  following laboratory  tests  were conducted on the selected samples as  
              relevant   IS  Codes. 
 
a.)     Particle  size  analysis ( IS. 2720-Part 4-1985 ) 
b.)     Water  contents ( IS. 2720-Part 2-1973 ) 
c.)     Bulk density  ( IS.2720-Part  9-1992 ) 
d.)     Specific  Gravity ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
e.)     Direct shear Test  ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
f.)     Liquid  Limit  &  Plastic  Limit ( IS.2720-Part 5-1985 ) 
g.)     Triaxial  Test  ( IS.2720-Part 11-1971 ) 
 
 
 
 
                                               ---------           
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marya  Foundations,   
Kaloor, Cochin  
Ph..99951 95228.  
 
 
 
  
  
 
                       Soil investigation report  for  500mw  BESS 
                          Project at BDPP, Brahmapuram, Kochi, Kerala . 
                          . 
 
                                    MF/934/2025 - ( Bore : VI  & VII  ) 
  
                      K.S.E.B,   6.m x 2.5/m  containers  wt.60/Ton 
                       
                         Part – A.1  ( A &  B) 
 
                         . 
 
                      BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
 
                         Sep / 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
REPORT  ON  SUB SOIL EXPLORATION FOR  PROPOSED  
BUILDING AT BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
   
                                                                                   Job :  MF / 934 / Sep / 2025 (Bore : VI & VII  ) 
                                                                                   Ref :  Part – .A.1 ( A & B ) 
                                                                                                        
 
I     INTRODUCTION.     
 
                                   There  is  a  proposed  to  construction for  storage container  unit   
6.m x 2.5/m  container s wt. 60/Ton for  KSEB  soil investigation brahmapuram  site at  
 Kochi, kakkanad .      It  is  decided  to  carry out a  detailed  sub  soil find our investigation 
 to  safe  bearing  capacity  and section  of  appropriate  foundations  for proposed  building. 
 
    
 
The  work  was awarded  to M/s.Marya  Foundations,  Kaloor, Cochin Ph..99951 95228.  
A  detailed investigation and laboratory studies were carried out. 
 
This  report  summarizes the subsoil investigations and furnishes the  recommendations 
on the type of the foundations to be provided. 
 
I.1    SCOPE  OF WORK 
 
The scope of work at this site, entrusted  with us comprised of 
 
1.1  Mobilization  of  boring  rigs with  all necessary  equipments  and   skilled/ unskilled   
 personals for the field  work. 
1.2  Boring  one bore  hole of  diameter 150 mm, with  drilling equipments  in latrate,  silt, 
 clay and  gravel to a maximum depth of   12 mts  or till  the spoon  rebound  at  the 
 selected location fixed by the client. 
1.3  Conduction of   Standard  Penetration  tests  in  bore hole at  every 1.50 m depth  or  
 change of strata and prepare bore log showing details. 
1.4  Collection of disturbed samples in air tight polythene bags with proper labeling and  
transportation to laboratory. 
1.5 Conducting the laboratory  tests on  the disturbed  samples  as per  Indian  standards 
 and furnishing the results. 
1.6 Preparation and  submission of  the detailed  report with  field and laboratory results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                              -     2   - 
 
 
II.1      PROGRAM  OF  INVESTIGATION 
 
      FIELD  INVESTIGATION 
 
1.1       Two  boring  units with  all  necessary  equipments along with a team of  technical 
            personal with   skilled labours were  mobilized at the work  site. 
 
1.2         Two  bore  hole of  150mm was   bored to a depth  suggested  by client, below  the  
              existing  ground  level.  Bore  hole was made as per IS.  1892-1979, using  rotary  
               drilling. 
 
1.3          Representative  samples  were collected at every  1.00mts  intervals depth  change  
            of   strata, whichever is earlier. 
 
1.4          The  samples  collected  were  carefully sealed and  transported  to  laboratory   
                for  tests. 
 
1.5           Standard    Penetration  Tests   were   conducted  at  every   1.50 mts  intervals   
                intervals  after  that,  as per  IS :2131 - 1981.     Before  testing  borehole  was 
                Cleaned  properly  and  Split  Spoon  Sampler is  placed  centrally in bore hole. 
                A  Standard   hammer  of   63.50 kg. is dropped from a  height of   75.cm  and 
                number  of   blows  for  penetration  of  sampler  for  0-15 cm,  15-30cm  and 
                30-45 cm were noted.  Number of  blows required form 15-45 cm penetration  
                is  reported as  N  value. 
 
1.6          Bore hole  was  terminated   after the investigation. 
 
1.7          LABORATORY   INVESTIGATION. 
 
II. 2.1     The  following laboratory  tests  were conducted on the selected samples as  
              relevant   IS  Codes. 
 
a.)     Particle  size  analysis ( IS. 2720-Part 4-1985 ) 
b.)     Water  contents ( IS. 2720-Part 2-1973 ) 
c.)     Bulk density  ( IS.2720-Part  9-1992 ) 
d.)     Specific  Gravity ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
e.)     Direct shear Test  ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
f.)     Liquid  Limit  &  Plastic  Limit ( IS.2720-Part 5-1985 ) 
g.)     Triaxial  Test  ( IS.2720-Part 11-1971 ) 
 
 
 
 
                                               ---------           
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marya  Foundations,   
Kaloor, Cochin  
Ph..99951 95228.  
 
 
  
  
 
                       Soil investigation report  for  500mw  BESS 
                          Project at BDPP, Brahmapuram, Kochi, Kerala . 
                          . 
 
                                    MF/933/2025 - ( Bore : IV  & V ) 
  
                      K.S.E.B,   6.m x 2.5/m  containers  wt.60/Ton 
                       
                         Part – A.2  ( A &  B) 
 
                         . 
 
                      BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
 
                         Sep / 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
REPORT  ON  SUB SOIL EXPLORATION FOR  PROPOSED  
BUILDING AT BRAHMAPURAM,  KAKKANAD 
   
                                                                                    Job :  MF / 933 / Sep / 2025 (Bore : IV & V ) 
                                                                                    Ref :  Part – A.2 ( A & B ) 
                                                                                                        
 
I     INTRODUCTION.     
 
                                   There  is  a  proposed  to  construction for  storage container  unit   
6.m x 2.5/m  container s wt. 60/Ton for  KSEB  soil investigation brahmapuram  site at  
 Kochi, kakkanad .      It  is  decided  to  carry out a  detailed  sub  soil find our investigation 
 to  safe  bearing  capacity  and section  of  appropriate  foundations  for proposed  building. 
 
    
 
The  work  was awarded  to M/s.Marya  Foundations,  Kaloor, Cochin Ph..99951 95228.  
A  detailed investigation and laboratory studies were carried out. 
 
This  report  summarizes the subsoil investigations and furnishes the  recommendations 
on the type of the foundations to be provided. 
 
I.1    SCOPE  OF WORK 
 
The scope of work at this site, entrusted  with us comprised of 
 
1.1  Mobilization  of  boring  rigs with  all necessary  equipments  and   skilled/ unskilled   
 personals for the field  work. 
1.2  Boring  one bore  hole of  diameter 150 mm, with  drilling equipments  in latrate,  silt, 
 clay and  gravel to a maximum depth of   12 mts  or till  the spoon  rebound  at  the 
 selected location fixed by the client. 
1.3  Conduction of   Standard  Penetration  tests  in  bore hole at  every 1.50 m depth  or  
 change of strata and prepare bore log showing details. 
1.4  Collection of disturbed samples in air tight polythene bags with proper labeling and  
transportation to laboratory. 
1.5 Conducting the laboratory  tests on  the disturbed  samples  as per  Indian  standards 
 and furnishing the results. 
1.6 Preparation and  submission of  the detailed  report with  field and laboratory results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                              -     2   - 
 
 
II.1      PROGRAM  OF  INVESTIGATION 
 
      FIELD  INVESTIGATION 
 
1.1       Two  boring  units with  all  necessary  equipments along with a team of  technical 
            personal with   skilled labours were  mobilized at the work  site. 
 
1.2         Two  bore  hole of  150mm was   bored to a depth  suggested  by client, below  the  
              existing  ground  level.  Bore  hole was made as per IS.  1892-1979, using  rotary  
               drilling. 
 
1.3          Representative  samples  were collected at every  1.00mts  intervals depth  change  
            of   strata, whichever is earlier. 
 
1.4          The  samples  collected  were  carefully sealed and  transported  to  laboratory   
                for  tests. 
 
1.5           Standard    Penetration  Tests   were   conducted  at  every   1.50 mts  intervals   
                intervals  after  that,  as per  IS :2131 - 1981.     Before  testing  borehole  was 
                Cleaned  properly  and  Split  Spoon  Sampler is  placed  centrally in bore hole. 
                A  Standard   hammer  of   63.50 kg. is dropped from a  height of   75.cm  and 
                number  of   blows  for  penetration  of  sampler  for  0-15 cm,  15-30cm  and 
                30-45 cm were noted.  Number of  blows required form 15-45 cm penetration  
                is  reported as  N  value. 
 
1.6          Bore hole  was  terminated   after the investigation. 
 
1.7          LABORATORY   INVESTIGATION. 
 
II. 2.1     The  following laboratory  tests  were conducted on the selected samples as  
              relevant   IS  Codes. 
 
a.)     Particle  size  analysis ( IS. 2720-Part 4-1985 ) 
b.)     Water  contents ( IS. 2720-Part 2-1973 ) 
c.)     Bulk density  ( IS.2720-Part  9-1992 ) 
d.)     Specific  Gravity ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
e.)     Direct shear Test  ( IS.2720-Part 13-1986 ) 
f.)     Liquid  Limit  &  Plastic  Limit ( IS.2720-Part 5-1985 ) 
g.)     Triaxial  Test  ( IS.2720-Part 11-1971 ) 
 
 
 
 
                                               ---------           
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
Page 1 of 101 
 
 
   
 
 
 
BATTERY ENEsRGY STORAGE PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
 
 
FOR 
 
 
PROCUREMENT OF 250 MW/ 500 MWH 
ON LONG TERM BASIS 
Between 
 
 
 
… ...................[Insert Name of BESSD] 
 
 
And 
 
Kerala State Electricity Board Limited (KSEBL) 
 
… ............. [Insert month and year] 
Page 2 of 101 
 
 
   
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
Article 1: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 
Article 2: TERM OF AGREEMENT 
Article 3: CONDITIONS SUBSEQUENT 
Article 4: CONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROJECT 
Article 5: SYNCHRONISATION, COMMISSIONING AND COMMERCIAL OPERATION 
Article 6: DISPATCH AND SCHEDULING 
Article 7: METERING 
Article 8: INSURANCES 
Article 9: APPLICABLE TARIFF 
Article 10: BILLING AND PAYMENT 
Article 11: FORCE MAJEURE 
Article 12: CHANGE IN LAW 
Article 13: EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND TERMINATION 
ARTICLE 14: LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION 
ARTICLE 15: ASSIGNMENTS AND CHARGES 
ARTICLE 16: GOVERNING LAW AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
ARTICLE 17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
ANNEXURE A: DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURE. 
SCHEDULE A: FORMULA FOR DETERMINATION OF IMPACT IN TARIFF OR CHARGES DUE 
TO CHANGE IN LAW 
SCHEDULE B: PERFORMANCE CRITERIA & CALCULATION UNDER BESPA 
Page 3 of 101 
 
 
   
This Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement is made on the …….[Insert date] day of 
……….[Insert month] of …….. [Insert year] at .................. [Insert place] 
Between 
 
… ..................... [Insert name of the BESSD], a Company incorporated under the Companies Act 
1956 or Companies Act 2013, having its registered office at ………….. [Insert address of the 
registered office of BESSD] (hereinafter referred to as “ Battery Energy Storage System 
Developer” or “Storage Project Developer” or “BESSD”, which expression shall, unless 
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, be deemed to include its successors and 
permitted assigns) as a Party of the First Part; 
And 
 
………………….[Insert name of Buying Entity] , a company incorporated  under the  
Companies Act,1956, having its registered office at ………….. [Insert address of the 
registered office of Buying Entity] (hereinafter referred to as “KSEBL” or “Buying Entity” or 
“Procurer” or “Buyer”), which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof, be deemed to include its successors and assignees) as a Party of the Second Part; 
 
The BESSD and KSEBL are individually referred to as ‘Party’ and collectively referred to as 
‘Parties’. 
WHEREAS: 
 
A. The Ministry of Power, Government of India has issued the “ Guidelines for Procurement  
and Utilization of Battery Energy Storage Systems as part of Generation, Transmission and 
Distribution assets, along with Ancillary Services ” vide Resolution dated 10th March 2022, 
including subsequent amendments and clarifications thereof, if any, issued until   
[Enter the last date of bid submission of the RfS] and Guidelines for Viability Gap Funding 
Scheme for development  of Battery Energy Storage System (BESS)  supported through 
Power System Development Fund (PSDF)  on 09th June 2025 including subsequent 
amendments and clarifications thereof. 
B. Kerala State Electricity Board Limited (hereinafter referred to as “ KSEBL”), is the State 
Electricity Utility in the state of Kerala. Kerala has been allocated 500 MWh BESS Capacity 
by Ministry of Power, GoI under the Viability Gap Funding (VGF)  under Power System 
Development Fund (PSDF) Development of Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS). 
C. KSEBL through its Authorised Representative i.e. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited 
Page 4 of 101 
 
 
   
(hereinafter referred as ‘NVVN’) had initiated a Tariff Based Competitive Bid Process for 
development of cumulative capacity of 250 MW/500 MWh of STU connected standalone 
Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the state of Kerala with Viability Gap Funding 
(VGF) Support  on the terms and conditions contained in the Request for Selection 
Documents (herein after referred to as ‘RFS’) issued by NVVN vide RfS No…………….. 
dated……………. . 
 
D. KSEBL has issued the Letter of Award No…………….. dated…………in favor of the 
 [Insert name of the Bidding Company] for development and establishment 
of the ____MW/  MWh of “Project” or “BESS” at a location provided at  in 
the State of   as per the terms and conditions contained in the RfS, this  Battery 
Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) and other bidding documents as well as  
the conditions contained in the Letter of Award. 
 
E. …..[Insert Name of the Bidding Company] has been selected in the Competitive Bidding 
Process {in case Bidding Company is executing the Project through SPV}, has constituted 
a ………… [Insert Name of the SPV] (hereinafter referred to as ‘ BESSD’), for 
development, and supply of BESS Capacity from the ...................... MW/ MWh of 
the Project / BESS to be established by BESSD in state of Kerala and for making available 
of such Battery Energy Storage Capacity to KSEBL (Buying Utility). 
F. KSEBL has agreed to purchase such Battery Energy Storage Capacity from the BESSD as 
Buying Utility as per the provisions of the RfS and as per the given provision of this 
Agreement. The terms and conditions of the agreement are valid, subject to the 
approval of KSERC. In the case of non -approval from KSERC, no party shall be 
liable in any manner. 
G. In terms of the RfS and the Bidding Documents, the BESSD has furnished the  
Performance Bank Guarantee in the sum  of Rs…………………..in favour of KSEBL as 
per the format provided as a part of the Bidding Documents and a copy of the Bank 
Guarantee provided in Schedule – 1 to this Agreement. 
H. BESSD has fulfilled the terms of the RfS Documents and the terms of the Letter of Award for 
signing this Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement as a definitive agreement for 
developing the “Project” (or “BESS”) of……………..MW/  MWh at 
  (location of plant) in the State of Kerala for making available Battery 
Energy Storage Capacity by the BESSD to KSEBL/ Buying Utility. 
I. Viability Gap Funding: BESSD is eligible for grant of Central Financial Assistance in the 
Page 5 of 101 
 
 
   
form of Viability Gap Funding (VGF), to be released as per the provisions contained in the 
RfS and this agreement.  In line with the sanction Order, issued by the Ministry of Power 
vide Order No: F. No. 48 -15/7/2025-NRE Section – MoP Dated 09.06.2025, Project 
selected under this RfS will be eligible for grant of Viability Gap Funding (VGF) support by 
the Government for development of Battery Energy Storage System and the same will be 
disbursed as per the procedure followed by Power System Development Fund Guidelines. 
J. The parties have agreed to execute this Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement in 
terms of the provisions of the RfS, the bidding documents and the Letter of Award in regard 
to the terms and conditions for development of the Project at ……, [Insert project location & 
name of state] on Build, Own Operate basis and for making available such Battery Energy 
Storage Capacity by the BESSD to KSEBL. 
 
Now therefore, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements, covenants and 
conditions set forth herein, it is hereby agreed by and between the Parties as follows: 
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 
 
1.1 Definitions 
 
The terms used in this Agreement, unless as defined below or repugnant to the context, shall 
have the same meaning as assigned to them by the Electricity Act, 2003 and the rules or 
regulations framed there under, including those issued / framed by the Appropriate Commission 
(as defined hereunder), as amended or re-enacted from time to time. 
 
“Act” or 
“Electricity 
Act, 2003” 
shall mean the Electricity Act, 2003 and include any modifications, 
amendments and substitution from time to time; 
“Adjusted Equity” shall mean the Equity funded in Indian Rupees and adjusted on 
the first day of the current month (the “Reference Date”), in the 
manner set forth below, to reflect the change in its value on 
Page 6 of 101 
 
 
   
 account of depreciation and variations in Wholesale Price Index 
(WPI), and for any Reference Date occurring between the first day 
of the month of Appointed Date (the date of achievement of 
Financial Closure) and the Reference Date; 
a. On or before Commercial Operation Date (COD), the 
Adjusted Equity shall be a sum equal to the Equity funded in 
Indian Rupees and expended on the Project, revised to the 
extent of one half of the variation in WPI occurring between 
the first day of the month of Appointed Date and Reference 
Date; 
b. An amount equal to the Adjusted Equity as on COD shall be 
deemed to be the base (the “Base Adjusted Equity”); 
c. After COD, the Adjusted Equity hereunder shall be a sum 
equal to the Base Adjusted Equity, reduced by 0.333% (zero 
point three threethree percent) thereof at the 
commencement of each month following the COD [reduction 
of 1% (one percent) per quarter of a year] and the amount 
so arrived at shall be revised to the extent of variation in 
WPI occurring between the COD and the Reference Date;  
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted Equity shall, in the event of 
termination, be computed as on the Reference Date immediately 
preceding the Transfer Date; provided that no reduction in the 
Adjusted Equity shall be made for a period equal to the duration, if 
any, for which the BESPA period is extended, but the revision on 
account of WPI shall continue to be made. 
“Agreement” or 
"Battery Energy 
Storage Purchase 
Agreement" 
or “BESPA” 
shall mean this Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement 
including its recitals and Schedules, amended or modified from 
time to time in accordance with the terms hereof; 
"Appropriate 
Commission" 
Unless otherwise stated, Appropriate Commission shall mean 
Kerala Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) 
“APPC” or 
“Average Power 
Purchase Cost” 
in Rs/kWh shall mean the weighted average cost of the power 
purchased by KSEB Ltd including the cost of self -generation by 
KSEB Ltd. 
"Bill Dispute 
Notice" 
shall mean the notice issued by a Party raising a Dispute regarding 
a Monthly Bill or a Supplementary Bill issued by the other Party; 
“Battery  Energy 
Storage Project” or 
“Project” or “BESS 
PROJECT”, “Battery 
Energy Storage 
shall mean the system(s)/projects of ………..[Insert capacity] 
MW/ MWh, located at ....................... [Insert name 
of the place] in …. [Insert name of the District and State] having a 
separate control system, metering and single point of injection into 
the  grid  at  Delivery/Interconnection/Metering  point  at  STU 
Page 7 of 101 
 
 
   
Systems” or “BESS” substation and utilizing methods and technologies such as 
electrochemical batteries (Lead Acid, Li -ion, solid state batteries, 
flow batteries etc.), providing a facility that can store energy and 
deliver the stored energy in the form of electricity, including 
ancillary facilities (grid support, for example). 
It also includes all units and auxiliaries, Battery Energy 
Management System including associated applications / software; 
bay/s for transmission system in the switchyard, dedicated 
transmission line up to the Delivery Point and all the other assets, 
buildings/structures, equipment, plant and machinery, facilities and 
related assets required for the efficient and economic operation of 
the power generation facility; whether completed or at any stage of 
development and construction or intended to be developed  and 
constructed for the purpose of supply of above mentioned Battery 
Energy Storage Capacity as  per this Agreement; 
“Business Day” shall mean with respect to BESSD and KSEBL, a day other than 
Second Saturday or Sunday or a statutory holiday or KSEBL 
holiday, on which the banks remain open for business in 
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala; 
“Buying Entity” or 
“Buying Utility” or 
“Discom” 
Buying Entity/ Utility shall mean Kerala State Electricity Board 
Limited (KSEBL) 
“CERC” shall mean the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission of India, 
constituted under sub – section (1) of Section 76 of the Electricity 
Act, 2003, or its successors; 
“CTU” or “Central 
Transmission 
Utility” 
shall mean the Government Company notified by the Central 
Government under Sub -Section (1) of Section 38 of the Electricity 
Act, 2003. 
Charging Power Shall mean the requirement of energy to charge the contracted 
capacity and additional energy considering minimum system 
efficiency as per RfS. Charging power shall be provided by 
KSEBL/Procurer under this agreement. 
“Change in Law” shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 12 of this 
Agreement; 
“Commissioning” The Project will be considered as commissioned if all equipment 
as per rated Project Capacity has been installed, synchronized 
with Grid demonstrated all required parameters as per procedure 
in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.  
“Commercial 
Operation Date 
(COD)” 
shall mean the date of next day on which the Project Capacity or 
the last part capacity of the Project (as the case may be) has 
achieved successful commissioning (as per provisions of this 
Agreement and RfS Documents). 
Page 8 of 101 
 
 
   
“Competent Court 
of Law” 
shall mean any court or tribunal or any similar judicial or quasi - 
judicial body in India that has jurisdiction to adjudicate upon issues 
relating to this Agreement; 
“Consents, 
Clearances and 
Permits” 
shall mean all authorizations, licenses, approvals, registrations, 
permits, waivers, privileges, acknowledgements, agreements, or 
concessions required to be obtained from or provided by any 
concerned authority for the purpose of setting up of the Project and 
providing energy storage facility under this Agreement; 
“Consultation 
Period” 
shall mean the period of ninety (90) days or such other longer 
period as the Parties may agree, commencing from the date of 
issuance of a BESSD Preliminary Default Notice or KSEBL 
Preliminary Default Notice as provided in Article 13 of this 
Agreement, for consultation between the Parties to mitigate the 
consequence of the relevant event having regard to all the 
circumstances; 
“Contract Year” shall mean the period beginning from the Effective Date and 
thereafter each period of 12 months, provided that: 
(i) in the financial year in which the Scheduled Commissioning 
Date or date of full commissioning of the project which ever is 
later would occur, the Contract Year shall end on the date 
immediately before such Date and a new Contract Year shall 
commence once again from the Scheduled Commissioning 
Date or date of full commissioning of the project which ever is 
later and thereafter each period of twelve (12) months for 
illustration if date of Commissioning of the full project is 10 th 
April 2026, then the contract  year shall end on 9 th April 2027 
and 
(ii) provided further that the last Contract Year of this Agreement 
shall end on the last day of the Term of this Agreement 
"Contracted 
Capacity" 
shall mean …… MW/ MWh, which is the 
Energy Storage Capacity contracted with KSEBL for supply by the 
BESSD to KSEBL at the Delivery Point from the Project. 
 
Moreover, it is clarified that the Project Capacity, i.e.   MW 
(Insert the Project Capacity) shall not be capacity demonstrated 
under any other tender concluded by any Central or State Agency 
as on the last date of bid submission of this RfS. 
“Controlling 
Shareholding” 
shall mean more than 50% of the voting rights and paid up share 
capital in the Company/ Consortium. 
“Day” shall mean a day, if not a Business Day, the immediately 
succeeding Business Day. 
Page 9 of 101 
 
 
   
“Debt Due” shall mean the aggregate of the following sums expressed in 
Indian Rupees outstanding on the Transfer Date: 
a. The principal amount of the debt provided by the Senior 
Lenders under the Financing Agreements for financing the 
Total Project Cost (the ‘Principal’) but excluding any part of 
the principal that had fallen due for repayment 2 (two) years 
prior to the Transfer Date;  
b. All accrued interest, financing fees and charges payable 
under the Financing Agreements on, or in respect of, the 
debt referred to in sub -clause (a) above until the Transfer 
Date but excluding: (i) any interest, fees or charges that had 
fallen due 2 (two) years prior to the Transfer Date, (ii) any 
penal interest or charges payable under the Financing 
Agreements to any Senior Lender, (iii) any prepayment 
charges in relation to accelerated repayment of debt except 
where such charges have arisen due to Procure r Default, 
and (iv) any Subordinated Debt which is included in the 
Financial Package and disbursed by equity investors or their 
Affiliates for financing the Total Project Cost.  
Provided that if all or any part of the Debt Due is convertible into 
Equity at the option of Senior Lenders and/or the Concessionaire, it 
shall for the purposes of this Agreement be deemed not to be Debt 
Due even if no such conversion has taken place and the principal 
thereof shall be dealt with as if such conversion had been 
undertaken. Provided further that the Debt Due, on or after COD, 
shall in no case exceed 80% (eighty percent) of the Total Project 
Cost. 
Page 10 of 
101 
 
 
   
“Delivery Point” shall mean the interconnection point at the voltage level of 220 kV 
of Brahmapuram 220 kV Grid Interconnecting Sub-station including 
the dedicated transmission line (if any) connecting the Project with 
the substation system as specified in the RfS document. 
 
Metering shall be done at this interconnection point where the 
power is injected into / drawn. For interconnection with grid and 
metering, the BESSD shall abide by the relevant and applicable 
regulations, Grid Code notified by the CERC or (and) Central 
Electricity Authority (Installation and Operation of Meters) 
Regulations, 2006 as amended and revised from time to time, or 
orders passed thereunder by the appropriate commission or CEA. 
 
Subject to provisions of this Agreement, for the Contracted 
Capacity, all charges and losses for charging, storing of energy 
and offtake of power shall be to the account of the Buying Entity. 
However, any charges / losses (if any) as per extant regulations / 
 guidelines which are to be borne by the BESSD shall be borne by 
the BESSD. Moreover, any penalty or cost like deviation 
settlement mechanism etc. upto delivery point which is not 
attributable to Buying Entity shall be borne by the BESSD. In case 
it is  paid by KSEBL on behalf of Buying  Utilities / BESSD, the  
same shall  be recovered from the Buying Utilities / 
BESSD (as 
applicable);; 
 
Discom shall mean the Buying Entity i.e KSEBL  
 
“Dispute” shall mean any dispute or difference of any kind between KSEBL 
and the BESSD, in connection with or arising out of this  
Agreement including but not limited to any issue on the 
interpretation and scope of the terms of this Agreement as 
provided in Article 16 of this Agreement; 
 
"Due Date" shall mean the forty fifth (45th) day after a  Monthly Bill (including 
all the relevant documents) or a Supplementary Bill is received in 
hard copy or in soft copy over e -mail and duly acknowledged by 
the KSEBL or, if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately 
succeeding Business Day, by which date such Monthly Bill or a 
Supplementary Bill is payable by the KSEBL. 
 
“Effective Date” shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 2.1 of this 
Agreement; 
 
Page 11 of 
101 
 
 
   
“Electricity Laws” shall mean the Electricity Act, 2003 and the rules and regulations 
made there under from time to time along with amendments 
thereto and replacements thereof and any other Law pertaining to 
electricity  including  regulations  framed  by  the  Appropriate 
Commission; 
 
"Energy Accounts" shall mean the regional energy accounts/state energy accounts  
as specified in the Grid Code issued by the appropriate agency  
for each Month (as per their prescribed methodology), including 
the revisions and amendments thereof or where such regional 
energy accounts/ state energy accounts are not issued, Joint 
Meter Reading (JMR) will be considered; 
 
KSEBL reserves the right to choose from any of the above, i.e. 
JMR/SEA/REA; 
 
“Event of Default” shall mean the events as defined in Article 13 of this Agreement;  
“Expiry Date” Shall mean the date occurring as on sixteen (16) years from the 
Scheduled Commissioning Date (SCD) or the date of full 
commissioning of the Project, whichever is later, subject to the 
condition that the storage capacity shall be made available to 
KSEBL for a period upto 1 6 years from the from the Scheduled 
Commissioning Date (SCD) or the date of full commissioning of 
the Project, whichever is later, unless extended by the Parties as 
per this Agreement; 
 
“Financial Closure” shall mean compliance with the requirements under Article 3.1 of 
this Agreement; 
“Financing 
Agreements” 
shall mean the agreements pursuant to which the BESSD has 
sought financing for the Project including the loan agreements, 
security documents, notes, indentures, security agreements, letters 
of credit and other documents, as may be amended, modified, or 
replaced from time to time, but without in anyway increasing the 
liabilities of KSEBL; 
"Force Majeure" or 
“Force Majeure 
Event” 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 11 of this 
Agreement; 
“Guidelines” or 
“Scheme” 
shall mean the Guidelines for “Procurement and Utilization of 
Battery Energy Storage Systems as part of Generation, 
Transmission and Distribution assets, along with Ancillary Services” 
issued by the Ministry of Power vide Gazette Resolution dated 10 th 
March 2022, including subsequent amendments and clarifications, 
issued until the last date of bid submission of the referred RfS and 
operations guidelines for Scheme for development of Battery 
Energy Storage Systems supported through Power System 
Development Fund (PSDF) dated 09th June 2025 and subsequent 
clarifications and amendments issued by Ministry of Power; 
 
Page 12 of 
101 
 
 
   
"Grid Code" / 
“IEGC” 
or “State Grid 
Code” 
shall mean the Grid Code specified by the CERC under Clause (h) 
of Sub-section (1) of Section 79 of the Electricity Act, as amended 
from time to time, and/or the State Grid Code as specified by the 
concerned State Commission, referred under Clause (h) of Sub - 
section (1) of 
Section 86 of the Electricity Act 2003, as applicable; 
InSTS shall mean the Intra-State Transmission System; 
“Indian 
Governmental 
Instrumentality” 
shall mean the Government of India, Governments of 
state(s) [Insert the name(s) of the state(s) in India, where 
the Power Project, KSEBL and BESSD are located] and any 
ministry, department, board, authority, agency, corporation, 
commission under the direct or indirect control of Government of 
India or the above state Government(s) or both, any political sub - 
division of any of them; including any court or Appropriate 
Commission(s) or tribunal or judicial or quasi-judicial body in India; 
“Insurances” shall mean the insurance cover to be obtained and maintained by 
the BESSD in accordance with Article 8 of this Agreement; 
"Interconnection 
Facilities" 
shall mean the facilities on BESSD’s side of the Delivery Point for 
scheduling, transmitting and metering the electrical output in 
accordance with this Agreement and which shall include, without 
limitation, all other transmission lines and associated equipment, 
transformers, relay and switching equipment and protective 
devices, safety equipment and RTU, Data Transfer and Acquisition 
facilities for transmitting data subject to Article 7, the Metering 
System required for supply of power as per the terms of th is 
Agreement; 
“Invoice” or “Bill” shall mean either a Monthly Bill / Supplementary Bill or a Monthly 
Invoice/ Supplementary Invoice raised by any of the Parties; 
“Joint Control” shall mean a situation where none of the promoter shareholders 
has more than 50% shareholding in the paid -up share capital and 
voting rights in the BESSD, and the control is exercised jointly; 
KSERC shall mean the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission 
“Late Payment 
Surcharge” 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 10.3.3 of this 
Agreement; 
"Law" shall mean in relation to this Agreement, all laws including 
Electricity Laws in force in India and any statute, ordinance, 
regulation, notification or code, rule, or any interpretation of any of 
them by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and having force 
of law and shall further include without limitation all applicable 
rules, regulations, orders, notifications by an Indian Governmental 
Instrumentality pursuant to or under any of them and shall include 
without limitation all rules, regulations, decisions and orders of the 
Appropriate Commissions; 
Page 13 of 
101 
 
 
   
“Letter of Credit” or 
“L/C” 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 10.4 of this 
Agreement; 
“MNRE” shall mean the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, 
Government of India; 
“MOP” shall mean the Ministry of Power, Government of India; 
"Month" shall mean a period of thirty (30) days from (and excluding) the 
date of the event, where applicable, else a calendar month; 
“Monthly Availability” For a particular Contract month “Monthly Availability” shall be the 
average availability of the Contracted BESS capacity during that 
particular Contract month, calculated as per the RfS ; 
KSEBL Shall mean Kerala State Electricity Board Limited 
"Party" and 
"Parties" 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recital to this 
Agreement; 
“Payment on Order 
Instrument” or “POI” 
shall mean the irrevocable unconditional letter of undertaking 
issued by either of the three institutions, viz., (i) Indian Renewable 
Development agency Limited (IREDA) or (ii) Power Finance 
Corporation Limited or (iii) REC Limited.,  
 
“Payment Security 
Mechanism” 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 10.4 of this 
Agreement; 
“Performance Bank 
Guarantee” or “PBG” 
shall mean the irrevocable unconditional bank guarantee, 
submitted by the BESSD to KSEBL in the form attached hereto 
as 
Schedule1; 
“Preliminary Default 
Notice” 
shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 13 of this 
Agreement; 
“Project Capacity” Shall mean [Insert the capacity] MW/ MWh 
[as per LOA] of BESS, which [Insert name of BESSD] is required 
to Build Own Operate and supply such Battery Energy Storage 
Capacity as per provisions of this Agreement read harmoniously 
with RfS Documents and LOA. 
Page 14 of 
101 
 
 
   
"Prudent Utility 
Practices" 
shall mean the practices, methods and standards that are  
generally accepted internationally from time to time by electric 
utilities for the purpose of ensuring the safe, efficient and economic 
design, construction, commissioning, operation and maintenance  
of Energy Storage System equipment and which practices, 
methods and standards shall be adjusted as necessary, to take 
account of: 
a) operation and maintenance guidelines recommended by the 
manufacturers of the plant and equipment to be installed / used 
for the Project Battery Energy Storage Project; 
b) the requirements of Indian Law; and the physical conditions at 
the site of the Project; 
c)  Installation, Operation, Maintenance and Safety Guidelines / 
Rules / Regulations for BESS/ Projects / Power Projects issued 
by Central Government Instrumentality; 
“RBI” shall mean the Reserve Bank of India; 
“Rebate” shall have the same meaning as ascribed thereto in Article 10.3.4 
of this Agreement; 
"RLDC" shall mean the relevant Regional Load Dispatch Centre 
established under Sub-section (1) of Section 27 of the Electricity 
Act, 2003; 
“RPC” shall mean the relevant Regional Power Committee established by 
the Government of India for a specific region in accordance with 
the Electricity Act, 2003 for facilitating integrated operation of the 
power system in that region; 
"Rupees", "Rs.", 
“ ” 
shall mean Indian rupees, the lawful currency of India; 
“Scheduled 
Commissioning 
Date” or “SCD” of the 
Project 
shall mean ......................... [Insert Date]; 
in relation to the contracted capacity or the part of the contracted 
capacity, shall mean the date(s) corresponding to the date of 
commencement of supply of quoted storage capacity in the RfS 
(Request for Selection) (i.e. not more than 18 months from the date 
of signing of BESPA or as extended in terms of the provisions of 
this agreement). 
“SERC” shall mean the Electricity Regulatory Commission of any State in 
India constituted under Section-82 of the Electricity Act, 2003 or its 
successors, and includes a Joint Commission constituted under 
Subsection (1) of Section 83 of the Electricity Act 2003; 
 
“SLDC” shall mean the center established under Sub -section (1) of Section 
31 of the Electricity Act 2003, relevant for the State(s) where the 
Delivery Point is located; 
“SLDC Charges” shall mean the charges levied by the SLDC of the state wherein the 
Project is located; 

Page 15 of 
101 
 
 
   
“State Transmission 
Utility” or “STU” 
shall mean the Board or the Government company notified by the 
respective State Government under Sub-section (1) of Section 39 of 
the Act and Transmission Wing of KSEBL. 
"Tariff" or “Applicable 
Tariff” 
Shall have the same meaning as provided for in Article 9 of this 
Agreement; 
 
"Tariff Payment" shall mean the payments to be made under Monthly Bills as referred 
to in Article 10 and the relevant Supplementary Bills; 
 
“Termination Notice” shall mean the notice given by either Parties for termination of this 
Agreement in accordance with Article 13 of this Agreement; 
 
"Term of Agreement" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Article 2 of this 
Agreement; 
 
“Unit/ Part 
Commissioning” 
Subject to the compliance of conditions / procedure as detailed 
under Schedule -3 of this Agreement, Unit / Part Commissioning 
shall mean the Energy Storage Power Capacity (AC MW/ AC MWh) 
to be commissioned as per provisions of this Agreement  and RfS 
document. Subject to other applicable provisions, the minimum part 
commissioning capacity for the 1 st part will be 50 % of the MWh 
capacity at the project location.  The total number of instalments / 
phases / parts in which a Project can be commissioned will be no t 
more than 3, i.e., 1st Part of minimum 50% of the MWh Capacity and 
2 subsequent parts. 
 
“Unit Commercial 
Operation Date 
(UCOD)” 
shall mean the date of the next day of commissioning of the 
respective part(s) of the Battery Energy Storage Project subsequent 
to the demonstration of the compliance of commissioning as per this 
Agreement and witnessed by the Committee (as applicable) duly 
constituted and also start of injection / drawl and scheduling of 
power from the BESS at the Delivery Point and availability / 
installation of all necessary arrangements / equipment including 
RTU for scheduling of power generated  from the Project and 
transmission of data to the 
concerned authority as per applicable regulation; 
 
Viability Gap Funding 
(VGF) 
Viability Gap Funding is financial support to be provided by the 
Central Government to BESSD through KSEBL. The VGF shall be 
a non -recurring expenditure and shall be fully funded from 
central grant. VGF amount eligible for BESS Developer is 
limited to the amount calculated @Rs. 18,00,000/MWh (Rupees 
Eighteen Lakhs per MWh) 
 
"Week" shall mean a calendar week commencing from 00:00 hours of 
Monday, and ending at 24:00 hours of the following Sunday; 
Page 16 of 101 
 
 
 
1.2 Interpretation 
Save where the contrary is indicated, any reference in this Agreement to: 
1.2.1 “Agreement" shall be construed as including a reference to its Schedules and/or 
Appendices and/or Annexures; 
1.2.2 An "Article", a "Recital", a "Schedule” and a “paragraph / clause" shall be 
construed as a reference to an Article, a Recital, a Schedule and a 
paragraph/clause respectively of this Agreement; 
1.2.3 A “crore” means a reference to ten million (10,000,000) and a “lakh” means a 
reference to one tenth of a million (1,00,000); 
1.2.4 An "encumbrance" shall be construed as a reference to a mortgage, charge, 
pledge, lien or other encumbrance securing any obligation of any person or any 
other type of preferential arrangement (including, without limitation, title transfer 
and retention arrangements) having a similar effect; 
1.2.5 “Indebtedness” shall be construed so as to include any obligation (whether 
incurred as principal or surety) for the payment or repayment of money,  
whether present or future, actual or contingent; 
1.2.6 A "person" shall be construed as a reference to any person, firm, company, 
corporation, society, trust, government, state or agency of a state or any 
association or partnership (whether or not having separate legal personality) of 
two or more of the above and a person shall be construed as including a 
reference to its successors, permitted transferees and permitted assigns in 
accordance with their respective interests; 
1.2.7 "Rupee", "Rupees”, “Rs” or new rupee symbol “  ” shall denote Indian Rupees, the 
lawful currency of India; 
1.2.8 The "Winding-up", "dissolution", "insolvency", or "reorganization" of a company or 
corporation shall be construed so as to include any equivalent or analogous 
proceedings under the Law of the jurisdiction in which such company or 
corporation is incorporated or any jurisdiction in which such company or 
corporation carries on business including the seeking of liquidation, Winding - 
up, reorganization, dissolution, arrangement, protection or relief of debtors; 
1.2.9 Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa; 
1.2.10 This Agreement itself or any other agreement or document shall be construed 
as a reference to this or to such other agreement or document as it may have 
been, or may from time to time be, amended, varied, novated, replaced or 
supplemented; 

Page 17 of 101 
 
 
 
1.2.11 A Law shall be construed as a reference to such Law including its amendments 
or re- enactments from time to time; 
1.2.12 A time of day shall, save as otherwise provided in any agreement or document 
be construed as a reference to Indian Standard Time; 
1.2.13 Different parts of this Agreement are to be taken as mutually explanatory and 
supplementary to each other and if there is any inconsistency between or 
among the parts of this Agreement, they shall be interpreted in a harmonious 
manner so as to give effect to each part; 
1.2.14 The tables of contents and any headings or sub -headings in this Agreement 
have been inserted for ease of reference only and shall not affect the 
interpretation of this Agreement; 
1.2.15 All interest, if applicable and payable under this Agreement, shall accrue from 
day to day and be calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred and sixty- 
five (365) days; 
1.2.16 The words “hereof” or “herein”, if and when used in this Agreement shall mean 
a reference to this Agreement; 
1.2.17 The terms “including” or “including without limitation” shall mean that any list of 
examples following such term shall in no way restrict or limit the generality of 
the word or provision in respect of which such examples are provided; 
1.2.18 This Agreement and other documents such as Request for Selection 
Documents, Guidelines including subsequent clarifications, amendments and 
further clarifications in regard to the tender shall be read in conjunction with 
each other and interpreted in harmonious manner. However, in case of any 
mismatch/contradiction between provisions of different documents, following 
shall be the order of precedence: 
1. Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement 
2. RfS Document & Letter of Award 
Page 18 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 2: TERM OF AGREEMENT 
 
2.1 Effective Date 
 
2.1.1 The Effective Date of the BESPA shall be the date as on 30 days from the date 
of issue of LoA, or the date of signing of BESPA, whichever is later (for 
example, if the date of LoA is 07.04. 2026, the Effective Date will be 06.05.2026 
or date of signing of BESPA, whichever is later). Subsequent to expiry of the 30 
-day period after the issuance of LoA, in case KSEBL intimates to the 
Successful Bidder, a particular date as the date for signing of BESPA, the 
specified date shall become the Effective Date of the BESPA, irrespective of  
the date of signing of BESPA. 
 
2.1.2 The Parties agree that decisions pertaining to adoption of the Tariff and approval 
of the same, for procurement of Contracted Capacity, shall be binding on all 
Parties concerned, as contained in the Electricity Act, 2003 and any 
amendments thereof. 
 
2.1.3 Notwithstanding the Effective Date, the condition precedent for the enforcement 
of the obligations of either Party against the other under this Agreement shall  
be that, within 120 days after the Effective Date of the BESPA, KSEBL and/or 
the Buying Entity shall obtain adoption of tariff from Appropriate Commission,  
on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement. The Parties agree 
that in the event, the order of adoption of tariff as mentioned above is not 
issued by the Appropriate Commission within the time specified above, the 
provisions of Article 2.1.4 shall apply. In the event such approval is not obtained 
within 12 months, KSEBL may terminate this agreement without liability. 
 
2.1.4 In case the order from the Appropriate Commission is issued within the timeline 
as per Article 2.1.3, no extension for Financial Closure or Scheduled 
Commissioning Date shall be given. However, if the requisite Appropriate 
Commission order is issued after the timeline as per Article 2.1.3, this shall 
entail a corresponding extension in Scheduled Financial Closure and the 
Scheduled Commissioning Date for equal number of days for which the 
Appropriate Commission order has been delayed beyond such period as 
specified in Article 2.1.3. 
Page 19 of 101 
 
 
 
2.2 Term of Agreement 
 
2.2.1 Subject to Article 2.3 and 2.4 of this Agreement, this Agreement shall be valid  
for a term of 16 (sixteen years) from the Effective Date until the Expiry Date. 
This Agreement may be extended for a further period, at least one hundred 
eighty (180) days prior  to the Expiry Date, on mutually agreed terms and 
conditions. 
2.2.2 At the end of the 7th Contract Year after COD, the BESSD would be required to 
demonstrate the operational residue BESS capacity of a value not less than 
82.5% of the Project Capacity. Such capacity demonstration shall be made by 
the BESSD in the beginning of the 8 th Contract Year as per the procedure for 
capacity demonstration detailed under Commissioning Procedure and shall be 
witnessed by a Committee having KSEBL’s representatives. 
 
2.2.3 In case BESSD fails to demonstrate operational residue capacity of a minimum 
value as per Article 2.2.2 above, BESSD, at its own risk and cost, shall  
augment the BESS capacity to meet the minimum criteria as per Article 2.2.2 
above, within 180 days of demonstration made as per Article 2.2.2 above,  
failing which, cost estimated by the KSEBL through a competitive bidding 
process for such augmentation of BESS shall be recovered from the tariff 
payable for the balance Term. Tariff payments as per Article 9 will not be 
applicable for the above period of rectification. Moreover, in case of non - 
payment of any aforementioned balance dues / compensation / penalty, KSEBL 
may debar the BESSD and Bidding Company including its Group Companies 
from participating for a period of 2 years in any of the Bidding Process 
conducted by the Procurer. 
 
2.2.4 The BESPA shall be valid for a period of 1 6 years from the SCD or date of full 
commissioning of the Project, whichever is later. Any extension of the BESPA 
period beyond the term of the BESPA shall be through mutual agreement 
between the BESSD and KSEBL. BESPA shall be extended for a period upto 5 
years at tariff not more than 60% of the BESPA tariff and mutually agreed 
between KSEBL and BESSD, provided the Minimum Dispatchable Energy after 
15 years and through the extended period is more than 70% of the Contracted 
Capacity as on COD and RtE remaining more than 85%, subject to approval of  
Page 20 of 101 
 
 
 
KSERC. 
 
2.2.5 The extension of BESPA beyond the initial 16 years would be for the part of 
Contracted Capacity as demonstrated after the 1 6-year period. e.g: If the 
Minimum Dispatchable Capacity demonstrated after the 1 6-year period is 400 
MWh at 250MW, then the extension of BESPA will be for 80% of the initial 
Contracted Capacity. A maintenance period upto 90 days will be allowed for 
Battery replacement / other maintenance activities, after the 16-year period. 
 
2.3 Early Termination 
 
2.3.1 This Agreement shall terminate before the Expiry Date if either KSEBL or 
BESSD terminates the Agreement, pursuant to Article 13 of this Agreement. 
2.4 Survival 
2.4.1 The expiry or termination of this Agreement shall not affect any accrued rights, 
obligations and liabilities of the Parties under this Agreement, including the 
right to receive penalty as per the terms of this Agreement, nor shall it affect 
the survival of any continuing obligations for which this Agreement provides, 
either expressly or by necessary implication, which are to survive after the 
Expiry Date or termination including those under Article 11 (Force Majeure), 
Article 13 (Events of Default and Termination), Article 14 (Liability and 
Indemnification), Article 16 (Governing Law and Dispute Resolution), Article 
17 (Miscellaneous Provisions), and other Articles and Schedules of this 
Agreement which expressly or by their nature survive the Term or termination 
of this Agreement shall continue and survive any expiry or termination of this 
Agreement. 
Page 21 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 3: CONDITIONS SUBSEQUENT 
 
3.1 Satisfaction of conditions subsequent by the BESSD 
 
The BESSD agrees and undertakes to duly perform and complete all of the 
following activities at its own cost and risk unless such completion is affected by 
any Force Majeure event, or for the activities specifically waived off in writing by 
KSEBL: 
(i) BESSD shall sign Right -to-Use/ Right of Use (ROU) Agreement with 
KSEBL in addition to signing of BESPA. The land area will be given to 
the BESSD by KSEBL for Right of Use (ROU) within 60 days from the 
signing of the BESPA as per provisions of RfS. 
(ii) BESSD at its own cost and risk by… ....................... [Enter the date as on 
Six (06) Months after the Effective Date] shall make Project  financing 
arrangements (i.e. arrangement of necessary funds by the Battery 
Energy Storage System Developer towards 100 % project cost either by 
way of commitment of funds by the Company from its internal resources 
(by a resolution passed by the Board of Directors) and/or tie up of funds 
through a bank/financial institution by way of sanction of a loan or firm 
commitment letter agreeing to finance ) for Projects(s) and shall provide 
necessary certificates to KSEBL in this regard; 
(iii) Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the Project, detailing out project 
configuration, proposed commissioning schedule of the Project and all 
other important and relevant features/ schedules etc. 
a) The BESSD shall also submit to KSEBL the relevant documents as stated 
above, complying with the Conditions Subsequent, within six (06) months 
from the Effective Date. 
b) The BESSD will have to submit the required documents to KSEBL at least 14 
days prior to the scheduled Financial Closure date. In case of delay in 
submission of documents mentioned above, KSEBL shall not be liable for 
delay in verification of documents and subsequent delay in Financial  
Closure. 
3.2 Consequences of non-fulfilment of conditions subsequent and financial closure 
3.2.1 In case of a failure to submit the documents as above, KSEBL shall encash the 
Performance Bank Guarantee submitted by the BESSD, terminate this 
Page 22 of 101 
 
 
 
Agreement and remove the  Project from the list of the selected Projects by 
giving a notice to the BESSD in writing  of at least seven (7) days, unless the 
delay is on account of delay in allotment of Land  not owing to any action or 
inaction on the part of the BESSD or caused due to a Force Majeure. Unless 
extended as per provisions of Article 3.2.1 (i) of this Agreement in writing, the 
termination of the Agreement shall take effect upon the expiry of the 7th day of 
the above notice. 
In case delay in signing of Right -to-Use/Land Lease/Sub -Lease Agreement is 
due to reasons not attributable to BESSD, then the deadline to fulfil Conditions 
Subsequent will be extended commensurate with the delay in signing of Land 
Use/Right-to-Use/Sub-Lease Agreement beyond the deadline as per Article  
3.1(i) above. 
3.2.1 (i) An extension, without any impact on the Scheduled Commissioning Date, can 
however be considered, on the sole request of BESSD, on payment of Rs.  
1000/- per day per MW (plus applicable GST)  to KSEBL. Such extension 
charges are required to be paid to KSEBL in advance, for the period of extension 
required. In case of any delay in depositing this extension charge, BESSD shall 
pay an interest on this extension charge for the days lapsed beyond due date of 
Financial Closure @ SBI-MCLR (1Year) plus five percent. In case such delay in 
making payment of the extension charges to KSEBL is more than 7 days, the 
termination of the Agreement shall take effect pursuant to issuance of  
termination notice after 7 days which may be issued by KSEBL. 
In case of the BESSD meeting the requirements of conditions subsequent and 
financial closure before the last date of such proposed delay period, the 
remaining amount deposited by the BESSD shall be returned by KSEBL without 
interest. This extension will not have any impact on the Scheduled 
Commissioning Date. Any extension charges paid so by the BESSD, shall be 
returned to the BESSD without any interest on achievement of successful 
commissioning within the Scheduled Commissioning Date, on pro -rata basis, 
based on the project capacity commissioned as on Scheduled Commissioning 
Date. However, in case the BESSD fails to commission the Contract Capacity by 
Scheduled Commissioning Date, the extension charges deposited by the  
BESSD shall not be refunded by KSEBL. 
3.2.2 For the avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that this Article shall survive the 
Page 23 of 101 
 
 
 
termination of this Agreement. 
3.2.3. In case of inability of the BESSD to fulfil the conditions specified in Article 3.1 
due to any Force Majeure event, the time period for fulfilment of the Conditions 
Subsequent and Financial Closure as mentioned in Article 3.1, shall be 
extended for the period of such Force Majeure event. Further, any delay in 
adoption of tariff by the Appropriate Commission, beyond 120 (one hundred 
twenty days) days after the Effective Date of this Agreement, shall entail a 
corresponding extension in the deadline as stipulated in Article 3.1. 
3.2.4 Provided that due to the provisions of this Article 3.2.1, any increase in the time 
period for completion of conditions subsequent and financial closure mentioned 
under Article 3.1, shall not lead to an equal extension in the Scheduled 
Commissioning Date. 
 
3.3 Performance Bank Guarantee 
3.3.1 The Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG ) having validity from the date of 
submission of PBG until 9 months after the SCD submitted for a value of 
12,00,000/MW (being a genuine pre -estimate as agreed by the Parties) to be 
furnished under this Agreement shall be for guaranteeing the commencement of 
the supply (injection / drawl) of power / energy  up to the Project Capacity within 
the time specified in this Agreement as per  Schedule 1. Similarly, the payment 
made to KSEBL in lieu of the PBG shall be retained until 9 months after the 
SCD. 
3.3.2 The failure on the part of the BESSD to furnish and maintain the Performance 
Bank Guarantee shall be a material breach of the term of this Agreement on the 
part of the BESSD. 
3.3.3 If the BESSD fails to commence supply of power from the Scheduled 
Commissioning Date specified in this Agreement or any further extension thereof 
granted by KSEBL, subject to conditions mentioned in Article 4.5, KSEBL shall 
encash the Performance Bank Guarantee equivalent to the amount calculated as 
per liquidated damages applicable under Article 4.6 as on the date of 
encashment without prejudice to the other rights of KSEBL under this 
Agreement. It is to be noted that the damages/dues recovered by KSEBL by 
encashing the PBG, upon the default of the BESSD under the BESPA  shall be 
retained by KSEBL till expiry of the term/ extended term of this agreement. 
Page 24 of 101 
 
 
 
 
3.3.4 BESSD acknowledges and accepts that the amount of the Performance Bank 
Guarantee and the methodology specified herein above for calculation of the 
compensation payable for non fulfillment of conditions subsequent within the 
stipulated time as well as non commencement of supply within the stipulated  
time is a genuine and accurate pre -estimation of the actual loss that will be 
suffered by KSEBL. BESSD further acknowledges and accepts that a breach 
of any of the obligations contained herein result in injuries and that the amount of 
the liquidated damages or the method of calculating the liquidated damages 
specified in this document is a genuine and reasonable pre estimate of the 
damages that may be suffered by KSEBL in each case specified under this 
Agreement. 
3.4 Return of Performance Bank Guarantee 
3.4.1 Subject to Article 3.3, KSEBL shall return / release the Performance Bank 
Guarantee within 09 months after the successful Commissioning of the Project 
after taking into account any liquidated damages / penalties due to delays in 
commissioning as per provisions stipulated  in this Agreement (as per article 
4.1.1 n). 
3.4.2 The return / release of the Performance Bank Guarantee shall be without 
prejudice to other rights of KSEBL under this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4: CONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROJECT 
 
4.1 BESSD’s Obligations 
 
4.1.1 The BESSD undertakes to be responsible, at  BESSD’s own cost and  risk, for 
the following: 
a) The BESSD shall be offered land on Right to Use / Lease / Sub -lease / 
licensing arrangement (as applicable) not later than 60 days from the 
Effective Date of BESPA. BESSD shall promptly comply with all the 
statutory / non -statutory, legal requirements including but not limited to 
signing of any agreement, payment of considerations etc. as per the offer 
made for the land.  
The BESSD shall submit duly executed documents/Agreements to 
establish possession/right to use the required land area in the name of the 
BESSD for a period not less than the complete term of the BESPA, on or 
Page 25 of 101 
 
 
 
before the SCD failing which Commissioning of the Project will not be 
allowed. 
b) The BESSD shall be solely responsible and make arrangements for 
associated infrastructure for development of the Project and for 
Connectivity with the STU till Delivery Point for confirming the evacuation  
of power by the Scheduled Commissioning date and all clearances related 
thereto. . Connectivity has been assured to be provided to the BESSD, and 
necessary applications in this regard, will be required to be made by the 
BESSD. It is clarified that the Project shall be interconnected to the 220kV 
Bus of 220kV Substation, Brahmapuram substation in Kerala . All the 
requisite costs associated including fees with obtaining connectivity shall 
be borne by the BESSD. 
c) Obtaining solely at its cost and responsibility all Consents, Clearances and 
Permits as required and maintaining all Consents, Clearances and Permits 
in full  force and  effect during  the Term of this Agreement. KSEBL shall 
have no obligation to recommend to any department/agency or the Govt. 
for the grant/permission for the Project. The BESSD shall, on his own, 
obtain permissions/ sanctions from Government authorities, if any required 
for establishing and operating (including for Charging and Discharging from 
BESS) the project. Any steps that may be taken by KSEBL in regard to  
grant of such consents and permits or any other approval to be taken by 
the BESSD shall only be a voluntary endeavor with no intention of being 
bound by any legal or binding obligation. 
d) Designing, constructing, erecting, commissioning, completing and testing 
the Project in accordance with the applicable Law, the Grid Code, the  
terms and conditions of this Agreement and Prudent Utility Practices. 
e) The commencement of charging & discharging of power / energy up to the 
Contracted Capacity to KSEBL no later than the Scheduled Commissioning 
Date and continuance of the charging & discharging of power throughout 
the term of the Agreement. 
f) connecting the Project switchyard with the Interconnection Facilities at the 
Delivery Point; The BESSD shall make adequate arrangements (including 
construction of requisite bays) to connect the Project switchyard with the 
Interconnection Facilities at Interconnection / Metering Point / Delivery 
Point. 
Page 26 of 101 
 
 
 
g) owning the Project throughout the Term of Agreement free and clear of 
encumbrances, except those expressly permitted under Article 15.  
h) maintaining its shareholding pattern as per provisions of the RfS  
Document. 
i) fulfilling all other obligations required to be undertaken by the BESSD under 
this Agreement for development of Project in Build, Own, Operate basis and 
supply of BESS Capacity during Term of this Agreement and as per 
provisions of this Agreement, RfS and LOA. 
j) The BESSD shall be responsible for directly coordinating and dealing with 
KSEBL (Buying Entity), Load Dispatch Centres, STU, Regional Power 
Committees, and other authorities in all respects in regard to declaration of 
availability, scheduling and dispatch of Stored Energy Capacity and due 
compliance with  deviation and settlement mechanism and the applicable 
Grid code/State/Central Regulations, acknowledging that the BESSD and 
KSEBL is the Grid connected entities and KSEBL as an Intermediary 
Procurer/ trading licensee is not a Grid connected entity in respect of the 
Battery Energy Storage Capacity contracted under this Agreement. 
k) The BESSD shall fulfil the technical requirements according to criteria 
mentioned under Annexure A –Technical requirement for Project under the 
Guidelines and RfS. 
l) Further, the Project being implemented under this Agreement shall fulfil the 
criteria as per Central Electricity Authority (Technical Standards for 
Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations, 2007, and subsequent amendments 
and clarifications thereof, 
m) As part of scheduling of power / energy from / to the Project for discharging 
/ charging, the BESSD will be required to punch -in their respective 
schedules and subsequent revisions, by themselves, at the interfaces of all 
the SLDCs concerned for the corridor of power flow, as per the Regulations 
in force, under intimation to KSEBL and in consultation with KSEBL/ Buying 
Entity. KSEBL may facilitate in identification of any discrepancy and assist 
the BESSD for its early rectification without any liability on KSEBL. The 
BESSD shall be solely responsible for discrepancy identification and its 
rectification to avoid any rejection/less payment of invoices / penalty. 
n) Not Used 
o) After signing of BESPA, the BESSD shall apply for drawl NOC(s) from the 
Page 27 of 101 
 
 
 
respective STU(s) of the State /  SLDC as per the power mapping provided 
by KSEBL. 
p) BESSD will have to comply with the Charging and Discharging Schedule as 
intimated by SLDC/ KSEBL. Frequent deviations from schedule by BESSD 
on account of commercial gain shall be considered under the material 
breach of this agreement. 
q) The BESSD shall submit a detailed completion Schedule for the Project 
within 30 days from BESPA effective date. Broad details to be captured in 
the Schedule are the land procurement, grid connectivity; order, supply and 
erection status of various Project components; financial arrangement/ tie up 
etc. The BESSD shall also submit the progress report to KSEBL in a form 
acceptable to KSEBL and shall contain percentage completion achieved 
compared with the planned percentage completion for each activity, and  
any such other information as required by KSEBL. The BESSD shall be 
required to submit the progress status of Project to KSEBL as and when 
requested by KSEBL, strictly within the timelines provided by KSEBL. 
Further, on 5th day of every calendar month, the BESSD shall be required 
to submit the Project progress status by Buying Entity.  In case of failure to 
comply with the same, KSEBL at its discretion, may or may not consider the 
SCD extension request of the BESSD, if any. 
r) After completion of BESPA tenure of 16 Years (or as mutually extended) or 
early termination or any other reason specified in agreement, BESSD shall  
within 180 days of expiry/ termination of this agreement,  clear the land 
provided by the KSEBL on lease basis. All the infrastructure developed by 
BESSD needs to be cleared at the time of handing over the land to KSEBL 
and such expenses shall be borne by BESSD. 
 
4.2 Information regarding Interconnection Facilities 
4.2.1 The BESSD shall be required to obtain all information from the 
STU/CTU/concerned authority with regard to the Interconnection Facilities as  
is reasonably necessary to enable it to design, install and operate all 
interconnection facilities on the BESSD’s side of the Delivery Point to enable 
injection / drawl of electricity at the Delivery Point. The transmission of power /  
energy to/ from up to the point of interconnection where the metering is done 
for energy accounting shall be the responsibility of the BESSD at its own cost. 
Page 28 of 101 
 
 
 
4.2.2 Penalties, fines and charges imposed by the CTU/ STU/ KSEBL under any 
statute or regulation in relation to delay in commissioning of Project shall be 
payable by the BESSD and there shall be no recourse to KSEBL. 
4.2.3 The responsibility of getting connectivity with the transmission system up to the 
Interconnection Point, will lie with the BESSD. The transmission of power up to 
the point of interconnection where the metering is done for energy accounting 
shall be the responsibility of the BESSD at his own cost. The maintenance of 
Transmission system up to the designated point as per the applicable terms 
and conditions shall be the responsibility of the BESSD. All costs, charges and 
losses up to and including at the Interconnection Point associated with this 
arrangement will also be borne by the BESSD. 
4.2.4 The BESSD shall be responsible for obtaining Connectivity and executing 
connectivity agreement as per provision of latest Grid Connectivity and Intra -
state Open Access Regulations issued by KSERC, for evacuation of the 
Contracted Capacity and maintaining it throughout the term of the Agreement. 
It is further clarified that the Entities (BESSD and Buying Entity) as indicated  in 
the Detailed Procedure issued subsequently under the KSERC’s relevant Grid 
Connectivity and Intra-state Open Access Regulations (As amended from time 
to time), will be responsible for their respective obligation as notified in the 
Detailed Procedure irrespective of the provisions of the RfS and BESPA. 
4.2.5 The arrangement of connectivity shall be made by the BESSD through a 
transmission line, if applicable. The entire cost of transmission including cost  
of construction of line, any other charges, losses etc. from the Project up to the 
Interconnection Point will be borne by the BESSD. 
4.2.6  Treatment of STU Charges and losses (if any) shall be as per the extant 
regulation / orders / guidelines of Government of India. 
4.2.7.1 Not Used 
4.2.7.2  Following studies may be conducted (not limited to below) by BESS 
Developer(s) in this regard: 
i. Harmonic studies considering network and BESS system along with flicker 
studies 
ii. Transient and dynamic studies 
iii. Small signal stability studies 
iv. Sub-Synchronous Oscillations/  Sub-Synchronous  Resonance /  Sub- 
Synchronous Torsional Interaction studies 
v. Sub-synchronous control interactions studies between different converter 
Page 29 of 101 
 
 
 
based equipment. 
vi. Any other studies stipulated. 
 
4.2.7.3  In addition, BESS system shall need comply to requirements/performance 
parameters stipulated in Central Electricity Authority (Technical Standards for 
Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations, 2007 and its amendments. 
4.2.7.4 Communication Equipment Requirement at BESS end shall be as per 
stipulations of STU: 
BESSD will provide communication equipment’s as per Regulations on 
Communication System for transmission of electricity and other 
Regulations/Procedures (as amended from time to time) issued by Appropriate 
Commissions and Central Electricity Authority  (CEA) and as stipulated by 
KSEBL. 
 
4.3 Purchase and sale of Contracted Capacity 
4.3.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the BESSD undertakes 
to sell to KSEBL and KSEBL undertakes to pay Applicable Tariff as per this 
Agreement for the  Battery Energy Storage Capacity upto the Contracted 
Capacity at the Delivery Point. 
 
4.4 Right to Project Capacity 
4.4.1 KSEBL, in any Contract Year, shall not be obliged to off-take any 
capacity beyond / over and above Contracted Capacity. 
 During a Day, in any Contract Year, the Buying Entity shall not ask for / 
schedule any BESS capacity / Energy in excess of 2 cycle of charge and 
discharge of 2 hours at rated power, subject to the maximum of 35 Operational 
Cycles in a Calendar Month and within 400 Operational Cycles in a Year. 
Provided that, in a cycle for charging to the rated capacity at rated power, 2.35 
hours is permitted which could be a single stretch of 2.35 hours or multiple 
stretches for achieving 100% charging of rated MWh capacity having total 
cumulative time period upto 10 hours. 
Similarly, for discharge, there could be a single stretch of 2 hours or multiple 
stretch having total cumulative time period upto 8 hours for achieving 100% 
discharging of rated MWh capacity  subject to condition that total scheduled 
discharge of energy from BESS as demanded by the Buying Entity shall be 
limited to Current RtE % of the energy supplied by the Buying Entity. 
Page 30 of 101 
 
 
 
Similarly, the charging cycle may, if required, may be performed in a single 
session or upto three sessions, at rated power or, stretching upto 10 Hours 
when charged at below rated power, at sole discretion of KSEBL. 
The BESSD shall make the BESS available for Single operational cycles per 
day, i.e. One complete charge-discharge cycle per day.  
Provided that KSEBL, at its discretion, can split the discharge of the stored 
energy upto three sessions. The discharge may also be performed at below the 
rated power, stretching upto 8 Hours. For purpose of BESS operation, a day 
shall be reckoned as from 06:00 hrs on a day to 06:00 hrs on next day. The 
discharge extended beyond 24:00 hrs shall be reckoned to be performed on the 
same day. There shall be no mandatory cooling period between two sessions of 
same operation. (Charging or Discharging). Similarly, the charging may also be 
performed upto 10 hours and upto three sessions. 
The BESS shall be operated for occasional dual cycles in a day subject 
maximum of 5 (Five) dual cycle days in a month, however subject to the annual 
limit of 400 cycles. 
It is hereby clarified that the BESS should be designed to provide a minimum of 
2 Hours of discharging capacity at rated power. However, KSEBL, at its sole 
discretion, can schedule discharging of the BESS upto three sessions each day, 
at rated power or stretching upto 8 Hours when discharged below rated power. 
Illustration (Discharge) : 
(1) 
Session Time Power 
(MW) 
Duration 
(Minutes) 
Energy 
Discharged 
(MWh) 
1 17:00 to 17:15 20 15 5 
     
2 18:00 to 18:30 100 30 50 
 18:30 to 19:30 250 60 250 
 19:30 to 20:00 40 30 20 
     
3 20:30 to 22:15 100 105 175 
   195 500 
(2) 
Session Time Power 
(MW) 
Duration 
(Minutes) 
Energy 
Discharge
d 
(MWh) 
1 18:00 to 01:00 50 420 350 
2 01:30 to 02:00 250 30 125 
3 02:30 to 03:00 50 30 25 
   480 500 
 
Page 31 of 101 
 
 
 
The Contracted Capacity of the Project shall be in terms of “MW”, which shall 
also be referred to as the Project Capacity. KSEBL’s obligation shall be for off -
take of entire Contracted Capacity and energy at Delivery point. 
For example, for the Project Capacity of 250 MW/ 500 MWh, Contracted 
Capacity shall be 250 MW. The BESPA shall entitle KSEBL to schedule 
discharge upto 500 MWh of energy from the BESS in each cycle, subject to 
the following: 
i. Buying entity will schedule charging of the BESS with equal amount of energy 
plus energy expected to be lost as conversion losses (determined from the 
Round-Trip Efficiency (RtE) of the system as declared by the BESSD on day 
ahead basis). 
Illustration: For a Contracted Capacity of 250 MW/500 MWh, assuming an 
RtE of 85%, KSEBL shall schedule and supply charging power to the tune of 
588.24 MWh, to expect a discharge of 500 MWh as per the desired 
schedule. 
ii. Energy scheduled for discharge in a given cycle during a year shall be more 
than or equal to the Min. Dispatchable Energy Capacity at the End of Year as 
specified  under Article 4.4.2.(c) of BESPA and as per Clause 8.1.e.iv. of 
RfS.  
For example, during the end of the 3rd Year after COD, the energy scheduled 
for discharge from 250 MW/ 500 MWh capacity shall be more than or equal 
to 250 x 0.925 x 2 = 462.5 MWh. 
 Contracted capacity shall be the project capacity at delivery point. KSEBL 
shall schedule provide the charging energy factoring the RtE, , as declared 
by the BESSD on Day Ahead basis.  as per specified RtE in RfS. 
4.4.2 Subsequent to commissioning of the Project, for any Contract Year, the 
BESSD shall be required to maintain and demonstrate the following 
performance parameters: 
a) Minimum Annual Average Availability of 95%: During any Contract Year 
for the Contracted Capacity, BESSD shall be required to maintain minimum 
Annual average availability of 95%. Annual Average Availability shall be 
calculated as per methodology given in the RfS.  
In case of shortfall in meeting the above criteria, the BESSD shall be levied 
liquidated damages for such shortfall and shall duly pay such damages to 
KSREBL. Amount of such liquidated damages shall be 1.5 times the 
Capacity Charges (Capacity Charges shall mean Applicable Tariff as 
defined under Article 9 of the BESPA) for the capacity not made available.  
The Minimum Annual Average Availability as specified above, shall 
Page 32 of 101 
 
 
 
however be relaxable by Buyer to the extent of grid non -availability for 
evacuation which is beyond the control of the BESSD (as certified by the 
SLDC/RLDC) and / or upon occurrence of Force Majeure event as 
identified in BESPA (and occurrence of such Force Majeure event(s) has 
been mutually agreed) and affecting availability and supply of Contracted 
Capacity. If the maximum permissible un availability of 5% is reached 
during part of a year, the Monthly Capacity Charge for Subsequent months 
will be paid only after deducting the penalty for Un availability. 
b) Round Trip Efficiency:  The BESSD shall maintain AC to AC roundtrip 
efficiency (RtE) of system on a monthly basis. Calculation of Round -Trip 
Efficiency shall be as per the methodology specified in RfS. 
The BESSD shall be liable for liquidated damages, if any, as per following 
criteria: 
(i) For 70% ≤ RtE< 85% there shall be a liquidated damage levied @ APPC 
charges of previous financial year of KSEBL excess conversion losses 
considering system RtE = 85% 
(ii)For RtE<70%, there shall be a liquidated damage levied @ APPC 
charges of previous financial year of KSEBL excess conversion losses 
considering system RtE = 85% , and tariff payment for the corresponding 
month shall not be made to the BESSD. 
(iii) For RtE> 85, there shall be incentive @Rs. 0.50 per unit of excess 
discharge of energy considering system RtE = 85 % 
c) Discharge Energy Commitment : Taking into consideration capacity 
degradation, the minimum dispatchable capacity  to be made available by 
the BESSD at the end of a given year shall be as follows: 
Contract Year Min. Dispatchable Capacity at the end of Year (as a % of 
Capacity at the Beginning of Life/COD) 
1 97.5% 
2 95.0% 
3 92.5% 
4 90.0% 
5 87.5% 
6 85.0% 
7 82.5% 
Page 33 of 101 
 
 
 
8 80.0% 
9 77.5% 
10 75.0% 
11 72.5% 
12 70.0% 
13 70.0% 
14 70.0% 
15 70.0% 
16 70.0% 
 
Performance criteria to be demonstrated by the Project have been detailed 
out in Schedule-B of this Agreement.  
The BESSD is required to meet the discharge energy commitment subject to 
schedule-B of BESPA. The Discharge Energy Commitment shall be 95 % of 
the Energy scheduled for dispatch on monthly basis. The BESSD shall be 
liable for Liquidated Damages to the off -taker through Buyer, if any, on 
account of short fall in supply of committed energy at the Average Market 
Clearing Price (MCP) in peak hour (18:30Hrs -20:30Hrs) in Day Ahead 
Market (DAM) of Power Exchange for corresponding billing month period as 
per methodology given in the RfS. 
The BESSD shall be eligible for incentive, from completion of one year after 
CoD of entire project capacity @ Rs.1.00 per unit for the excess discharge 
of energy for the quantum discharged by KSEBL in excess of the minimum 
dispatchable energy taking into consideration YoY capacity degradation as 2 
%. 
4.4.3 Shortfall in meeting Performance Criteria 
Following provisions shall be applicable on the Contracted Capacity guaranteed  
to be off taken by KSEBL: 
i) Shortfall in demonstrating minimum Availability during charging 
cycles:  
The BESSD shall install, operate and maintain the BESS to offer facility to 
KSEBL to charge and discharge the BESS on an “on demand” basis. The 
BESSD shall guarantee a minimum system availability of 95% on annual 
basis for Charging Cycles. The BESSD shall pay the liquidated damages for 
Page 34 of 101 
 
 
 
shortfall, if any, to KSEBL. Amount of such liquidated damages shall be 1.5 
Times the Capacity Charges for the capacity not made available during 
charging cycles. The BESSD shall declare availability on Day Ahead Basis. 
The BESSD should provide the DC (Declared Capacity) for each time block 
for the day before 09:00 hours the previous day. The tentative instructions 
for scheduling of charging and discharging will be issued by SLDC by 15:00 
hours on the previous day. 
Schedule revisions will be issued by SLDC upto two clear 15 -minute time blocks 
prior to the schedule period. However, as per Grid requirements, the SLDC shall 
request real-time schedule revisions, which shall be implemented real time and 
no later than the end of next time block. 
Revisions to the Declared Capacity (DC) by the BESSD shall be submitted at 
least six clear 15 -minute time block in advance. Frequent revision to DC, 
especially during evening peak hours, shall not be entertained and no more than 
two such revisions shall be permitted from 18:00 to 22:00 hours in a month. The 
discharge schedule from SLDC shall not be altered in such cases and will be 
treated as shortfall in discharge commitment. 
Intrastate Deviation Settlement Mechanism (DSM) shall become applicable as 
and when notified by KSERC / CERC. 
The Monthly Average Availability shall be calculated for each month. On the 
basis of monthly Availability, Annual Average Availability shall be calculated. The 
illustration is provided as under: 
ILLUSTRATION: 
 
Month 
Monthly 
Average 
Availability 
Annual Average Availability = 
{Σ (Monthly Average Availability)}/ 12 
1 95%  
 
 
 
(95%+95%+93%+97%+93%+98% 
+95%+92%+96%+95%+91%+90%) /12 
= 94.16 % 
2 95% 
3 93% 
4 97% 
5 93% 
6 98% 
7 95% 
8 92% 
9 96% 
10 95% 
11 91% 
12 90% 
“Availability” of the Project shall mean the ability of the BESS to execute a 
function i.e. charging or discharging, when called upon to do so, as per the 
schedule or signal provided by the off -taker, subject to the minimum system 
ratings specified herein. In addition, the BESSD shall also demonstrate , on 
annual basis, 100% of the minimum dispatchable capacity of the BESS  as 
Page 35 of 101 
 
 
 
required in the RfS. 
For a given BESPA, the Annual availability guarantee during Charging period  
shall commence from the date of fully commissioning of the system and shall be 
calculated as below: 
Monthly System Availability = Mean of the System availabilities of all 
time-blocks during the month in which the KSEBL has scheduled power 
for charging the BESS. 
Where, 
System Availability in a time-block= 
 𝐴𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑙 𝑀𝑈𝑖(𝐴)  , 𝑆𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑙𝑒𝑑 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑙 𝑀𝑈𝑖(𝐵) 
where 
a) i refers to the i th time-block in the Month where Scheduled Injection MUi ≠ 
0. 
b) Actual Drawl MUi is the Actual Energy for Charging in the i th time-block, in 
MUs 
c) Scheduled Drawl MUi is the Energy Scheduled for Charging in the ith time-
block, in MUs 
d) A and B shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports published by the SLDC or 
measurement at the Main ABT Meter at the Point of Interconnection. 
System Annual availability shall be calculated as per above. The liquidated  
damages for system availability below 95% shall be settled on monthly 
basis and if it is not able to settle in the same/ current month, it will be 
carried forward for settlement in subsequent month(s). 
If the Annual un-availability of 5% is already reached during part of a year, 
the Monthly Capacity Charges will be paid only after deducting the Penalty 
for Availability. 
 
Liquidated damages on account of shortfall in meeting the minimum 
Availability criteria as per Clause 8.1.d.i., will be computed as follows:  
 
Liquidated damages = (A – B) x C x D  x n x  1.5 
where,  
n = 12 
A is Guaranteed Annual  Availability as per article 4.4.2 (a) above; 
B is Actual Annual  System Availability, as calculated as per Schedule B of 
this agreement; 
C is BESS Power Capacity  
D is Capacity Charges/MW/month as discovered through bidding process; 
Page 36 of 101 
 
 
 
 
ii) Shortfall in demonstrating minimum Round-trip-Efficiency: 
The BESSD shall guarantee a  minimum AC to AC roundtrip  
efficiency (RtE) of 85% for the system on monthly basis. The 
BESSD shall be liable for Liquidated Damages to the off-taker, if any, 
on account of excess conversion losses, based on the following 
conditions: 
(a) For RtE <70%, there shall be a liquidated damage @ APPC tariff of 
previous financial year of the KSEBL, levied upon the excess conversion  
losses, considering system RtE = 85% and tariff payment for the 
corresponding month shall not be made to the BESSD; 
(b) For 70% ≤ RtE < 85%, there shall be a liquidated damage levied @ APPC 
tariff of previous financial year of KSEBL, levied upon excess conversion 
losses considering system RtE = 85%. 
(c) For RtE > 85%, there shall be incentive @Rs. 0.50 per unit of excess 
discharge of energy considering system RtE = 85% 
System Roundtrip Efficiency = 
= 𝐒𝐮𝐦 𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐨𝐟 𝐀𝐜𝐭𝐮𝐚𝐥 𝐈𝐧𝐣𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧/𝐃𝐢𝐬𝐜𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐌𝐔𝐬𝐣 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐦𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐡 (𝐂)
𝐒𝐮𝐦 𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐨𝐟 𝐀𝐜𝐭𝐮𝐚𝐥 𝐃𝐫𝐚𝐰𝐚𝐥/𝐂𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐌𝐔𝐬𝐣 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐦𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐡 (𝐃)  
Where, 
 
j refers to the jth month in a year; 
D ≠ 0; 
D <= 2 x Ebess x (MDn -1 – (MDn-1 – MDn) x j/12) x No of Days in the jth 
month/ RtEg;  
Ebess refers to Energy Rating specified in Clause 8.1.b. above; 
MDn-1 refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the 
previous year (as a % of Capacity at the COD specified in Clause 8.1.e.iv. 
below); 
MDn refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the 
current year; 
RtEg refers to the guaranteed Round-Trip Efficiency under the BESPA; 
C and D shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports published by the Regional 
RPCs/SLDCs or measurement at the Main ABT Meter at the Point of 
Interconnection. 
For calculation of LD, RtE shall be calculated based on the above formula 
Page 37 of 101 
 
 
 
rounded off to three decimal places. 
Note: 
• The Scheduled capacity shall be subject to the System Power Rating 
specified in Clause 8.1.a. above and 8.1.b above. 
• The BESSD shall take separate, metered connection for the Auxiliary Power 
load of BESS 
or 
The BESSD can draw auxiliary power from Interconnection point. Separate 
meter shall be provided by Developer to measure Auxiliary consumption and 
that would be billed by KSEBL @ Industrial Tariff excluding demand charges, 
subject to approval of Hon’ble KSERC. 
The BESSD shall declare RtE on Day Ahead basis along with Declared 
Capacity. 
 
iii) Shortfall in supply of Energy Commitment during Discharge 
Cycle:  
Liquidated damages as per the provisions as per article 4.4.2 c of 
BESPA shall be applicable in this case. 
Liquidated damages as specified above are mutually exclusive and 
independent, therefore, in case of levying of liquidated damages against 
Availability, Round -Trip Efficiency and Discharge energy commitment, all 
damages shall be payable by the BESSD 
4.5 Extensions of Time 
4.5.1  In the event that the BESSD is prevented from performing its obligations 
under Article 4.1 by the Scheduled Commissioning Date due to: 
a) any KSEBL Event of Default; or 
b) Force Majeure Events affecting KSEBL/ Buying Entity, or 
c) Force Majeure Events affecting the BESSD, 
the Scheduled Commissioning Date and the Expiry Date shall be deferred for  
a reasonable period but not less than ‘day for day’ basis, to permit the BESSD 
or KSEBL/ Buying Entity through the use of due diligence, to overcome 
the effects of the Force Majeure Events affecting the BESSD or KSEBL/ 
Buying Entity, or till such time such Event of Default is rectified by KSEBL. 
4.5.2 Any delay beyond 120 days from the Effective Date of BESPA in issuance of 
Order for the adoption of tariff by Appropriate Commission, shall entail a 
corresponding extension in Scheduled Financial Closure and the Scheduled 
Commissioning Date for equal number of days for which the Appropriate 
Page 38 of 101 
 
 
 
Commission order has been delayed beyond such period of 120 days from the 
Effective Date of BESPA. 
4.5.3  In case of extension due to reasons specified in Article 4.5.1(b) and (c), and if 
such Force Majeure Event continues even after a maximum period of 180 days 
from the date of the Force Majeure Notice, any of the Parties may choose to 
terminate the Agreement as per the provisions of Article 11.10. In case neither 
party terminates the Agreement under this clause, the Agreement shall stand 
terminated on the expiry of twelve (12) months of the continuation of the Force 
Majeure event unless the parties mutually agree to extend the Agreement for 
the further period. 
4.5.4 If the Parties have not agreed within thirty (30) days after the affected Party’s 
performance has ceased to be affected by the relevant circumstance, on the time 
period by which the Scheduled Commissioning Date or the Expiry Date should  
be deferred, either Party may raise the Dispute to be resolved in accordance with 
Article 16. 
4.5.5  As a result of such extension on account of Article 4.5.1 or Article 4.5.2, the 
newly determined Scheduled Commissioning Date and newly determined Expiry 
Date shall be deemed to be the Scheduled Commissioning Date and the Expiry 
Date for the purposes of this Agreement. 
4.5.6  Subsequent to grant of connectivity, in case there is a delay in readiness of the 
STU substation at the Delivery Point, including readiness of the power  
evacuation and transmission infrastructure of the STU network until SCD of the 
Project, or delay in grant/operationalization of Grid Access, and it is established 
that: 
i. The BESSD has complied with the complete application formalities as per 
Article 4.2.4 of this Agreement, 
ii. The BESSD has adhered to the applicable Regulations/Procedures in this 
regard as notified by the SERC/STU, and 
iii. The delay in grant of connectivity by the STU and/or delay in readiness of the 
InSTS substation at the Delivery Point, including readiness of the power 
evacuation and transmission infrastructure of the InSTS network, is a factor 
attributable to the STU/transmission licensee and is beyond the control of the 
BESSD; 
The above shall be treated as delays beyond the control of the BESSD and SCD 
for such Projects shall be revised as the date as on 30 days subsequent to the 
Page 39 of 101 
 
 
 
readiness of the Delivery Point and power evacuation infrastructure and/or 
operationalization of the Grid Access. Decision on requisite extension on account 
of the above factor shall be taken by KSEBL as per the provisions the 
agreement. In case of delay in commissioning of Project due to reasons 
beyond the reasonable control of the BESSD, KSEBL may extend the SCD after 
examining the issue on a case-to-case basis. 
4.5.7 Delay in commissioning of the project beyond the scheduled commissioning date 
for reasons other than those specified in Article 4.5.1 & Article 4.5.2 shall be an 
event of default on part of the BESSD and shall be subject to the consequences 
specified in the Article 4.6. 
 
4.6 Liquidated Damages not amounting to penalty for delay in Commissioning 
4.6.1 The Project shall be fully commissioned within the Scheduled Commissioning 
Date as defined in this Agreement. If the BESSD is unable to commission the 
Project by the Scheduled Commissioning Date for the reasons other than  
those specified in Article 4.5.1 & Article 4.5.2, the BESSD shall pay to KSEBL, 
damages for the delay in such commissioning and making the Contracted 
Capacity available for dispatch by the Scheduled Commissioning Date as per 
the following: 
(a) Delay beyond the Scheduled Commissioning Date upto (& including) the date  
as on 6 months after the Scheduled Commissioning Date , as part of the 
liquidated damages, the total PBG  amount for the Project shall be encashed 
on per -day basis and proportionate to the balance capacity not 
commissioned. For the purpose of calculations of the liquidated damages, 
‘month’ shall be considered consisting of  30 days. As an alternative to the 
above encashment of PBG, the BESSD may choose to make a payment of 
the amount corresponding to the liquidated damages, directly to KSEBL. The 
BESSD shall intimate to KSEBL, its chosen alternative out of the two options, 
within 10 business days of intimation of the liquidated damages to the 
BESSD, as calculated by KSEBL. In case no response is received from the 
BESSD until the lapse of the above deadline, KSEBL shall encash the PBG 
for the amount as per the liquidated damages. In case the BESSD chooses 
to make necessary payments in lieu of  the liquidated damages, the said 
payment shall be credited to KSEBL’s account through NEFT payment, no 
later than 5 business days from the above intimation by the BESSD. In case 
Page 40 of 101 
 
 
 
of non-payment by the BESSD within the above deadline, the PBG will be 
encashed by KSEBL on the next business day. 
(b) Delay beyond Six (6) Months from SCD: The BESPA capacity shall stand 
reduced/amended to the Project Capacity commissioned, the entire PBG will 
be encashed by KSEBL, and the BESPA for the Project  shall stand  
terminated for the  balance un-commissioned capacity. Accordingly, 
Contracted Capacity will also stand reduced to Project Capacity 
commissioned as of six months from the SCD. 
(c) For avoidance of doubt it is clarified that provisions of Article 4.6.1 will be 
applicable even in cases where no capacity (i.e. 0 MW) is commissioned. 
4.6.2 The BESSD further acknowledges and accepts that the amount of the 
liquidated damages as specified above is a fixed, genuine and reasonable pre- 
estimate of the damages that may be suffered by KSEBL/ Buying Entity. 
 
4.7 Acceptance/Performance Test 
4.7.1 Prior to synchronization of the Project, the BESSD shall be required to get the 
Project certified for the requisite test including for safety as may be laid down 
by Central Electricity Authority or an agency identified by the State government 
to carry out testing and certification for the Battery Energy Storage projects. 
Further, BESSD shall ensure that all technical, acceptance and performance 
criteria as specified in RfS Documents and Guidelines are also complied and 
maintained. 
 
4.8 Third Party Verification 
4.8.1 The BESSD shall be further required to provide entry to the site of the Project 
free of all encumbrances at all times during the Term of the Agreement to 
KSEBL (or its authorized representatives) and a third Party nominated by any 
Indian Governmental Instrumentality or KSEBL for inspection and verification 
of the works being carried out by the BESSD at the site of the Project. The 
BESSD shall provide full support to KSEBL and/or the third party in this regard. 
4.8.2 The third party may verify the construction works/operation of the Project being 
carried out by the BESSD and if it is found that the construction 
works/operation of the Project is not as per the Prudent Utility Practices, it may 
seek clarifications from BESSD or require the works to be stopped or to  
comply with the instructions of such third party. 
Page 41 of 101 
 
 
 
 
4.9 Breach of Obligations 
4.9.1 The Parties herein agree that during the subsistence of this Agreement, subject 
to KSEBL being in compliance of its obligations & undertakings under this 
Agreement, the BESSD would have no right to negotiate or enter into any 
dialogue with any third party for the sale of Contracted Capacity which is the 
subject matter of this Agreement. It is the specific understanding between the 
Parties that such bar will apply throughout the entire term of this Agreement. 
Page 42 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5:  SYNCHRONISATION, COMMISSIONING AND COMMERCIAL 
OPERATION 
5.1 Synchronization, Commissioning and Commercial Operation 
5.1.1 The BESSD shall give the concerned RLDC/SLDC, and KSEBL/ Buying Entity 
at least sixty (60) days’ advanced preliminary written notice and at least thirty  
(30) days’ advanced final written notice, of the date on which it intends to 
synchronize the Project to the Grid System. 
5.1.2 Subject to Article 5.1.1, the Project may be synchronized by the BESSD to the 
Grid System , with permission from KSEBL and in presence of Authorized 
Representative of KSEBL,  when it meets all the connection conditions 
prescribed in applicable Grid Code then in effect and otherwise meets all other 
Indian legal requirements for synchronization to the Grid System. 
5.1.3 The synchronization equipment and all necessary arrangements / equipment 
including RTU / any other equipment for charge and discharge of power from 
the Project and transmission of data to the concerned authority as per 
applicable regulation shall be installed by the BESSD at its facility of the 
Project at its own cost. The BESSD shall synchronize its system with the Grid 
System only after the approval of synchronization scheme is granted by the 
head of the concerned substation/Grid System and checking/verification is 
made by the concerned authorities of the Grid System  and SLDC, in line with 
the provisions of the Grid Code. 
5.1.4 The BESSD shall immediately after each synchronization/tripping of system, 
inform the sub -station of the Grid System to which the Project is electrically 
connected in accordance with applicable Grid Code under intimation to 
KSEBL/ Buying Entity. In addition, the BESSD at its own risk and cost, will be 
required to arrange for the charging and discharging of power to carry out 
operational/ functional test prior to commercial operation as well as for 
commissioning of the Project. For avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that 
Synchronization / Connectivity of the Project with the grid shall not be 
considered as Commissioning of the Project. 
5.1.5 The BESSD shall commission the Project as detailed in “ Schedule 3: 
Commissioning Procedure ” within eighteen (18) from the Effective Date of 
BESPA. Declaration of COD / UCOD shall only be done subject to the 
demonstration of the compliances as per Schedule-3. 
5.1.6 Part commissioning of the Project, without prejudice to the imposition of any 
Page 43 of 101 
 
 
 
liquidated damages in terms of the BESPA on the part which is not 
commissioned, shall be accepted by KSEBL subject to the condition that the 
minimum part commissioning capacity for the 1st part will be 50 % of the 
specified MWh Capacity (250 MWh)  at project location. The total number of 
instalments in which a Project can be commissioned will be not more than 3, 
i.e., 1st initial  instalment of 50 % of the specified MWh Capacity at the project 
location and 2 subsequent instalments. 
However, the SCD will not get altered due to part commissioning. Irrespective  
of dates of part commissioning or full commissioning, the BESPA will remain in 
force for the Term as defined in this Agreement. 
5.1.7 The Parties agree that for the purpose of commencement of the BESS capacity 
by the BESSD to KSEBL, liquidated damages for delay etc., the Scheduled 
Commissioning Date (or extended Scheduled Commissioning Date) as defined 
in this Agreement shall be the relevant date. 
5.1.8 Early Commissioning 
 
The BESSD shall be permitted for full commissioning as well as part 
commissioning of the Project even prior to the Scheduled Commissioning Date. 
Early commissioning of the Project will be allowed solely at the risk and cost of 
the BESSD, and KSEBL will purchase the BESS capacity from such early 
commissioned Project at BESPA tariff (for the Contracted Capacity). 
Such intimation for early commissioning shall be provided to KSEBL at least 15 
days before the proposed early commissioning date as per the Commissioning 
Procedure. In case there is no response provided by KSEBL within 7 days from 
the receipt of such intimation, such early commissioned capacity shall be 
deemed to have been rejected by KSEBL. UCOD/COD of the Project under the 
BESPA will be the date on which the commissioning certificate is issued upon 
successful commissioning of the part/full capacity of the Project. Subject to the 
provisions of this Agreement, in case of early commissioning, if BESSD sells 
any capacity to KSEBL, the BESSD will have to again demonstrate 100% of 
Contracted Capacity (as per  the Commissioning Procedure) to the Procurer 
from the date of commencement of off-take of capacity by the Procurer or SCD, 
whichever is later. 
Page 44 of 101 
 
 
 
5.1.9 The BESSD shall submit requisite documents , as mentioned below, at least 30 
days prior to trial run of the Project – 
i. Intimation regarding the timeline for commencement of supply of power from 
the Project. 
ii. Copy of Connectivity details. 
iii. Installation report duly signed by the authorized signatory. The BESSD is 
advised to take due care in furnishing such Installation Report. 
iv. CEI/CEIG/ State Electrical Inspectorate (as applicable)  report containing 
approval for all the components, including Batteries, inverters, transformers, 
transmission system and protection system, along with all 
annexures/attachments. It would be the responsibility of the BESSD to obtain 
the certificate. 
v. Approval of metering arrangement/scheme from STU / KSEBL any other 
concerned authority as applicable. 
vi. Plant Layout, Plant (AC & DC) SLD. 
vii. Affidavit certifying that the BESSD has obtained all the necessary approvals 
for commencement of power supply from  the Project, and indemnifying 
KSEBL against any discrepancies in the above details. 
viii. Affidavit from the BESSD certifying possession of land identified for the 
Project, bearing the details of such land parcels where Project is located, and 
indemnifying KSEBL against any discrepancies in the above details. 
ix. Documents to establish the compliance of technical requirement as per 
BESPA/RfS. 
x. Invoices against purchase of the Batteries, Inverters/PCUs, SCADA and BMS 
along with the summary sheet containing the list of all the invoices, inverters 
including details and number of items. Lorry Receipts for delivery of Project 
components at site along with certified summary sheet by the authorized 
signatory. 
xi. Fire clearances 
xii. Insurance Copy as specified in Article 08 
 
It is clarified that KSEBL shall bear no responsibility in declaration of 
commissioning/COD of the Project. However, on the basis of above documents, 
the BESSD shall be required to obtain No -objection certificate (NOC)/BESPA 
Compliance Certificate from KSEBL prior to declaration of commissioning/SCD of 
Page 45 of 101 
 
 
 
the Project. 
KSEBL’s scope will be limited to verifying the installation of rated capacity(ies) of 
the Project, as per the SCD certificate submitted by the BESSD. This verification  
will be at KSEBL’s discretion and shall not constitute any certification/confirmation 
of commissioning/SCD of the Project by KSEBL. Prior to declaration of 
commencement of power supply, the BESSD shall submit SCD certificate for the 
corresponding Installed Capacity which has commenced power supply to KSEBL 
as part of the requisite documents. 
ARTICLE 6: DISPATCH AND SCHEDULING 
 
6.1 Dispatch and Scheduling 
 
6.1.1 The BESSD, in consultation with KSEBL/ Buying Entity, shall be required to 
charge/ discharge the Battery System as per the applicable regulations / 
requirements / guidelines of CERC / SERC /SLDC / RLDC or any other 
competent agency and same being recognized by the SLDC or any other 
competent authority / agency as per applicable regulation/ law / direction and 
maintain compliance to the applicable Codes/ Grid Code requirements and 
directions, if any, as specified by concerned SLDC/RLDC from time to time. 
Any deviation from the Schedule will attract the provisions of applicable 
regulation / guidelines / directions and any financial implication on account of 
this shall be on the account of the BESSD. 
 
6.1.2 The BESSD shall be responsible  for directly coordinating and dealing with the 
KSEBL/ Buying Entity, RLDCs, SLDCs, Regional Power Committees, and 
other authorities  in all respects in regard to declaration of availability, 
scheduling and dispatch of  charging and discharging power  and due 
compliance with deviation and settlement mechanism and the applicable Grid 
code Regulations, acknowledging that the BESSD and KSEBL/ Buying Entity 
are the  Grid connected  entities and KSEBL as an  intermediary procurer/ 
trading licensee is not a Grid connected entity in respect of the  Battery 
Storage Capacity contracted under this Agreement. 
 
6.1.3 DSM penalties/ charges shall be levied separately on the BESSD and the 
Buying Entity as applicable, at their respective ends for the charging and 
Page 46 of 101 
 
 
 
discharging activities. DSM charges on this account shall be directly paid by 
the BESSD or the Buying Entity asapplicable. 
Any Reactive power charges in respect of charging and discharging power as 
per applicable CERC/SERC regulations shall be on account of the BESSD/ 
Buying Entity at their respective ends. 
6.1.4 The BESSD shall take separate, metered connection for the Auxiliary Power 
load of BESS.  Cost of Auxiliary power shall be borne by the BESSD as per  
the concerned Central/State regulations. 
6.1.5 Capacity procured from the Project awarded under this RfS shall be allocated 
to the Buying Entity/ KSEBL. 
6.1.6 Further, in case of any difference in scheduled energy at the interfaces of all 
the SLDCs concerned for the corridor of the power flow, including the SLDC of 
the Buying Entity, KSEBL will make payments corresponding to the lowest of 
the individual energy values to the BESSD, until rectification of the above 
error. 
6.2 Supply obligation of the BESSD: 
 
In case the BESSD fails to offer the contracted power as per this Agreement to 
KSEBL/ Buying Entity and sells the contracted power without its consent to any 
other party, the BESSD, on a complaint to this effect by KSEBL to the load 
dispatch centre concerned, shall be debarred from participating in Power 
Exchanges and on the Discovery of Efficient Electricity Pricing portal and 
scheduling of any new short-term contracts from the Project for a period of three 
months from the date on which the default has been taken cognizance by the 
concerned load dispatch centre. The period of debarment shall increase to six 
months for second default and shall be one year for each successive default. 
Such debarment of the BESSD shall be without prejudice to the rights of KSEBL/ 
Buying Entity for seeking compensation for the default by the BESSD under this 
Agreement. 
 
  
Page 47 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 7: METERING 
 
7.1 Meters 
 
7.1.1 For installation of Meters, Meter testing, Meter calibration and Meter reading 
and all matters incidental thereto, the BESSD shall follow and be bound by the 
Central Electricity Authority (Installation and Operation of Meters) Regulations, 
2006, the Grid Code,  equivalent KSERC regulations as amended and revised 
from time to time. 
7.1.2 The BESSD shall bear all costs pertaining to installation, testing, calibration, 
maintenance, renewal and repair of meters at BESSD side of Delivery Point  
for injection and drawl of power from the Grid during discharging and charging 
of BESS. 
7.1.3 In addition to ensuring compliance of the applicable codes, the BESSD shall 
install Main & Check and Standby meters at the Delivery Point for both 
Charging and Discharging, along with Stand -by meter(s) as per the applicable 
Central/State regulations and Power Quality Meter shall also be provided as 
specified by KSEBL. 
7.2 Reporting of Metered Data and Parameters 
7.2.2 Online arrangement would have to be made by the BESSD for submission of 
metering data regularly for the entire period of this Agreement to the SLDC, 
KSEBL and the concerned Ministry or concerned agency as per applicable 
regulation / directions. 
7.2.3 Reports on metering parameters on monthly basis, and/or as required by 
regulation / Guidelines, shall be submitted by the BESSD to KSEBL/ SLDC for 
entire Term of the BESPA. 
7.3 Records 
Each Party shall keep complete and accurate records and all other data required 
by each of them for the purposes of proper administration of this agreement and 
the operation of the Project. Among such other records and data, the BESSD 
shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date operating log at the Power Plant with 
records of:- 
a) Fifteen (15) minutes logs of real and reactive power generation, 
frequency, transformer tap po ssition, bus voltage(s), Main Meter and  
Back up Meter Readings and any other data mutually agreed; 
b) any unusual conditions found during operation / inspections; 
Page 48 of 101 
 
 
 
c) chart and printout of event loggers, if any, for system disturbances/ 
outages; 
d) All the records will be preserved for a period of 36 months. 
Page 49 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 8: INSURANCES 
 
8.1 Insurance 
 
8.1.1    The BESSD shall effect and maintain or cause to be effected and  maintained, 
at its own cost and expense, throughout the Term of BESPA, Insurances 
against such risks to keep the Project in good condition and shall take 
Industrial All Risk insurance policy/ Mega/ any Suitable Comprehensive 
Insurance policy as per Market practices covering all perils including but not 
limited to fire, theft, risk against loss or damage and others , with such 
deductibles and with such endorsements and co-insured(s), which the Prudent 
Utility Practices would ordinarily merit maintenance of and as required under 
the Financing Agreements, and under the applicable laws. 
8.1.2   The BESSD shall submit the Insurance copy to KSEBL at the time of 
commissioning of project and shall submit and maintain each insurance 
renewed throughout the period of contract. 
8.1.3   The BESSD shall provide KSEBL with copies of all insurance policies, 
endorsements, and renewal notices within 15 (fifteen) days of issuance or 
renewal. KSEBL shall have the right to review, verify and audit the insurance 
coverage to ensure compliance with this Article. Any shortfall or 
noncompliance shall be rectified by BESSD at its own cost within 30 (thirty) 
days of notice from KSEBL. 
 
8.2 Application of Insurance Proceeds 
8.2.1 In case of the Project not being implemented through Financing Agreement(s), 
save as expressly provided in this Agreement or the Insurances, the proceeds 
of any insurance claim made due to loss or damage to the BESS or any part of 
the BESS shall be first applied to reinstatement, replacement or renewal of 
such loss or damage to the Contracted Capacity followed by the outstanding 
claims of KSEBLL against BESSD, if any. 
In case of the Project being financed through Financing Agreement(s), save as 
expressly provided in this Agreement or the Insurances, the proceeds of any 
insurance claim made due to loss or damage to the Project to any part of the 
BESS shall be applied as per such Financing Agreements. 
 
8.2.2  If a Force Majeure Event renders the Project no longer economically and 
technically viable and the insurers under the Insurances make payment on a 
Page 50 of 101 
 
 
 
“total loss” or equivalent basis, KSEBL shall have claim on such proceeds of 
such Insurance limited to outstanding dues of KSEBL and any other dues of 
the KSEBL against BESSD. 
8.2.3 Insurance maintained by BESSD shall include coverage for third -party claims 
arising from bodily injury, death or property damage resulting from BESSD’s 
operations. KSEBL shall be entitled to claim directly under such insurance in 
case of BESSD default or failure to act. 
8.2.4 BESSD shall ensure that all insurance claims are lodged, processed, and 
proceeds applied to reinstatement or compensation within a reasonable 
period, and in any event within 60 (sixty) days of occurrence of the insured 
event. Any delay attributable to BESSD shall be treated as a breach under 
Article 13 of this Agreement. 
 
8.3 Effect on liability of KSEBL 
8.3.1 Notwithstanding any liability or obligation that may arise under this Agreement, 
any loss, damage, liability, payment, obligation or expense which is insured or 
not or for which the BESSD can claim compensation, under any Insurance 
shall not be charged to or payable by Buyer. It is for the BESSD to ensure  that 
appropriate insurance coverage is taken for payment by the insurer for the 
entire loss and there is no under insurance or short adjustment etc. 
8.3.2 Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, KSEBL shall have the right to 
directly receive insurance proceeds applicable to its dues and indemnifiable 
claims under Article 14 in case of BESSD’s failure to effect proper insurance or 
claim settlement. 
  
Page 51 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 9: APPLICABLE TARIFF 
 
9.1 The BESSD shall be entitled to receive the Tariff of INR /MW/Month 
[Insert the Tariff discovered through the bidding process conducted by NVVN 
for KSEBL], fixed for the entire term of this Agreement, with effect from the 
commissioning of the project, or part thereof, the Contracted Capacity made 
available to the KSEBL/ Buying Entity during BESPA Period, as per the 
provision of this agreement. 
9.2 For each KVARH (Reactive Power) drawn from the grid, the BESSD shall pay 
at the rate determined by KSERC to KSEBL from time to time. 
9.3 GST levied on the energy storage facility provided by the BESSD, (as 
applicable), shall be over and above the afore-mentioned tariff. 
9.4 In case of early part/full commencement of power supply from the project, 
KSEBL will purchase the power generated from such Project at the BESPA 
charges as per Article 9.1 (for the Contracted Capacity) The developer shall 
give fifteen (15) days advance notice to KSEBL regarding the advance 
commissioning of full or part capacity. KSEBL will give acceptance for availing 
such capacity within 10 days from the date of service of notice. 
 
Page 52 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 10: BILLING AND PAYMENT 
 
10.1 General 
 
10.1.1 Not Used 
10.1.2 From the commencement of availability of BESS Capacity, KSEBL shall pay to 
the BESSD the monthly Tariff Payments subject to the adjustments as per 
provisions of this Agreement including Article 6, in accordance with Article 9. 
All capacity charge Payments by KSEBL shall be in Indian Rupees. 
10.1.3 Not used. 
10.1.4 Subject to the provision of this Agreement, BESSD shall be required to make 
arrangement of auxiliary power at its own risk and cost. 
10.1.5 The parties acknowledge and accept that the Electricity (Late Payment 
Surcharge and related matters) Rules, 2022 [hereinafter referred to as ‘Rules’] 
notified by the Central Government in exercise of the power conferred by Sub - 
section (1) of Section 176 of the Electricity Act, 2003 shall apply and govern 
the terms and conditions of this Agreement in regard to matters contained in 
the said Rules including but not limited to the Late Payment Surcharge, 
adjustment towards the Late Payment Surcharge, Payment Security 
mechanism-its operations and consequences, actions of Defaulting Entities, 
supply obligation of BESSD, power not requisitioned by the Buying Entity, the 
order of payment and adjustment towards late payment surcharge and 
indemnification. The Rules referred to hereinabove being statutory shall, to the 
extent applicable, supersede any provisions in this BESPA and the  RfS which 
are inconsistent or contrary to the provisions of the Rules. 
 
10.2 Delivery and Content of Monthly Bills/Supplementary Bills 
 
10.2.1  The BESSD shall issue to KSEBL hard copy of a signed Monthly 
Bill/Supplementary Bill for the immediately preceding Month/relevant period, 
including the time -block-wise data in the tabular format as per Illustration in 
Schedule-2, along with all relevant documents. The BESSD shall also submit 
calculations of System Availability and Round -trip Efficiency in line with 
provisions of this Agreement, as part of the Monthly Bill/Supplementary Bill. 
Page 53 of 101 
 
 
 
The BESSD shall issue to KSEBL hard copy of signed monthly bill / Supplementary 
bill for the immediately preceding month duly supported by REA/SEA/signed 
JMR along with all relevant documents (payment of reactive energy charges, 
metering charges or any other charges as per guidelines of SERC/CERC, if 
applicable). 
10.2.2 As per applicable regulation(s) of the Appropriate Commission(s)/respective 
SERC(s), all charges pertaining to scheduling of power, if any, shall be borne 
by the Buying Entity, except the Auxiliary power which will be borne by BESSD. 
 
10.3 Payment of Monthly Bills 
 
10.3.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 10.3.4, KSEBL shall pay the amount 
payable under the Monthly Bill/Supplementary Bill by the Due Date to such 
account of the  BESSD, as shall have been previously notified by the BESSD. 
The BESSD shall open a bank account (the “BESSD’s Designated Account") 
for all Tariff Payments (including Supplementary Bills) to be made by KSEBL to 
the BESSD, and notify  KSEBL of the details of such account at least ninety 
(90) Days before the dispatch of the first Monthly Bill. KSEBL shall also 
designate a bank  account at Thiruvananthapuram ("KSEBL Designated 
Account") for payments to be made by the BESSD to KSEBL, if any, and notify 
the BESSD of the details of such account ninety (90) Days before the 
Scheduled Commissioning Date. KSEBL and the BESSD shall instruct their 
respective bankers to make all payments under this Agreement to the 
BESSD’s Designated Account or KSEBL’s Designated Account, as the case 
may be, and shall notify either Party of such instructions on the same day . 
Provided that if due date for payment of any bill falls on a bank non -working 
day, the next bank working day shall be considered as due date for payment. 
10.3.2 All payments required to be made under this Agreement shall also include any 
deduction or set off for: 
i) deductions required by the Law; and 
ii) amount claimed by KSEBL, if any, from the BESSD, will be adjusted from 
the monthly energy payment. In case of any excess payment adjustment, 
1.25% surcharge will be applicable on day-to-day basis. 
 
10.3.3 Late Payment Surcharge 
 
Page 54 of 101 
 
 
 
In the event of delay in payment of a Monthly Bill by KSEBL beyond Due 
Date, a Late Payment Surcharge shall be payable on  the payment 
outstanding after the Due Date, as per Late Payment Surcharge Rules 2022 
as amended from Time to Time. 
The Late Payment Surcharge may be claimed by the BESSD through the 
Supplementary Bill. 
10.3.4 Subject to the Article 9 of this Agreement, in the event of early Commissioning 
of the Project and subject to acceptance by KSEBL, the payment for the 
Capacity charges may be accounted from the date of UCOD, and BESSD 
would be allowed to raise Bills against such capacity as per Article 10.2.1, 
subject to the conditions as stipulated in Article 9. However, payment against 
the 1 st such bill raised by the BESSD, will be made subject to acceptance of 
the bill by the Buying Entity. 
 
10.3.5 Rebate 
 
For payment of any Bill on or before Due Date, the following Rebate shall be  
paid by the BESSD to KSEBL in the following manner: 
a) A Rebate of 2.0% shall be payable to the KSEBL for the payments made 
within a period of 10 (ten) days of the presentation of Bill along through 
hard copy/ email along with required supporting documents acceptable to 
KSEBL. 
b) Any payments made beyond a period of 10 days up to and including the 
30th Day from the date of presentation of bills through hard copy/ email, 
shall be allowed a rebate of 1%. 
c) For the above purpose, the date of presentation of Bill shall be the next 
Business Day of delivery of the physical copy of the Bill at KSEBL 
d) No Rebate shall be payable on the Bills raised on account of Change in 
Law (except in case of annuity tariff model being implemented, where 
rebate will be applicable) relating to taxes, duties, cess etc. and Late 
Payment Surcharge.  
e) No rebate shall be payable on the bills raised on account of taxes, Duties, 
cess etc.  
 
For the above purpose date of presentation of bill shall be the same day of 
delivery in hard or soft copy. However, for consideration of rebate, date of 
Page 55 of 101 
 
 
 
presentation of bill shall be excluded for considering 10 days.  
In case of computation of ‟ 10 days‟, the number of days shall be counted 
consecutively without considering any holiday. However, in case the last day or 
10th day is official holiday, the 10th day for the purpose of Rebate shall be 
construed as the immediate succeeding Business Day. 
 
10.4 Payment Security Mechanism 
Letter of Credit (LC): 
10.4.1 KSEBL shall provide to the BESSD, in respect of payment of its Monthly Bills 
and/or Supplementary Bills, a monthly unconditional, revolving and irrevocable 
letter of credit (“Letter of Credit”), opened and maintained which may be drawn 
upon by the BESSD in accordance with this Article. 
 
10.4.2 Before the start of supply, KSEBL shall, through a scheduled bank, open a 
Letter of Credit in favour of the BESSD, to be made operative from a date prior 
to the Due Date of its first Monthly Bill under this Agreement. The Letter of 
Credit shall have a term of twelve (12) Months and shall be renewed annually, 
for an amount equal to: 
i) for the first Contract Year, equal to 100% of the estimated average monthly 
billing; 
ii) for each subsequent Contract Year, equal to 100% of the average of the 
monthly billing of the previous Contract Year. 
10.4.3 Provided that the BESSD shall not draw upon such Letter of Credit prior to the 
Due Date of the relevant Monthly Bill and/or Supplementary Bill, and shall not 
make more than one drawl in a Month. 
10.4.4 Provided further that if at any time, such Letter of Credit amount falls short of 
the amount specified in Article 10.4.2 due to any reason whatsoever, KSEBL 
shall restore such shortfall before next drawl. 
10.4.5 KSEBL shall cause the scheduled bank issuing the Letter of Credit to intimate 
the BESSD, in writing regarding establishing of such irrevocable Letter of  
Credit. 
10.4.6 KSEBL shall ensure that the Letter of Credit shall be renewed not later than its 
expiry. 
10.4.7 All costs relating to opening, maintenance of the Letter of Credit shall be borne 
by KSEBL. 
Page 56 of 101 
 
 
 
10.4.8 If KSEBL fails to pay undisputed Monthly Bill or Supplementary Bill or a part 
thereof within and including the Due Date, then, subject to Article 10.3.3, 
10.4.6 & 10.5.2, the BESSD may draw upon the Letter of Credit, and 
accordingly the bank shall pay, an amount equal to such Monthly Bill or 
Supplementary Bill or part thereof, in accordance with Article 10.4.3 above, by 
presenting to the scheduled bank issuing the Letter of Credit, the following 
documents: 
i) a copy of the Monthly Bill or Supplementary Bill (only for energy related 
bills) which has remained unpaid to BESSD and; 
ii) a certificate from the BESSD to the effect that the bill at item (i) above, 
or specified part thereof, is in accordance with the Agreement and has 
remained unpaid beyond the Due Date 
iii) Undertaking from the BESSD that the bill is not disputed by KSEBL; 
 
In case of wrongful drawal of the Letter of Credit, the BESSD would be liable to 
further interest equivalent to late payment surcharge considered from the date 
of drawal of letter of credit. 
10.5 Disputed Bill 
 
10.5.1 If KSEBL does not dispute a Monthly Bill or a Supplementary Bill raised by the 
BESSD within thirty (30) days of receiving such Bill shall be taken as 
conclusive. 
 
10.5.2 If the KSEBL disputes the amount payable under a Monthly Bill or a 
Supplementary Bill, as the case may be, it shall pay 50% of the invoice  
amount or undisputed amount, whichever is higher and it shall within thirty (30) 
days of receiving such Bill, issue a notice (the "Bill Dispute Notice") to the 
invoicing Party setting out: 
i) the details of the disputed amount; 
ii) its estimate of what the correct amount should be; and 
iii) all written material in support of its claim. 
10.5.3 If the BESSD agrees to the claim raised in the Bill Dispute Notice issued 
pursuant to Article 10.5.2, the BESSD shall revise such Bill and present along 
with the next Monthly Bill. In such a case excess amount shall be refunded 
along with interest at the same rate as Late Payment Surcharge, which shall  
be applied from the date on which such excess payment was made by the 
Page 57 of 101 
 
 
 
disputing Party to the invoicing Party and up to and including the date on  
which such payment has been received as refund. 
10.5.4 If the BESSD does not agree to the claim raised in the Bill Dispute Notice 
issued pursuant to Article 10.5.2, it shall, within fifteen (15) days of receiving 
the Bill Dispute Notice, furnish a notice (Bill Disagreement Notice) to the 
KSEBL providing: 
i) reasons for its disagreement; 
ii) its estimate of what the correct amount should be; and 
iii) all written material in support of its counter-claim. 
10.5.5 Upon receipt of  the Bill  Disagreement Notice by  the KSEBL under Article 
10.5.4, authorized representative(s) or a director of the board of directors/ 
member of board of the KSEBL and BESSD shall meet and make best 
endeavors to amicably resolve such dispute within fifteen (15) days of receipt 
of the Bill Disagreement Notice. 
10.5.6 If the Parties do not amicably resolve the Dispute within fifteen (15) days of 
receipt of Bill Disagreement Notice pursuant to Article 10.5.4, the matter shall 
be referred to Dispute resolution in accordance with Article 16. 
 
10.5.7 For the avoidance of doubt, it is clarified the despite a Dispute regarding an 
invoice, KSEBL shall, without prejudice to its right to Dispute, be under an 
obligation to make payment of 50% of the invoice amount or undisputed 
amount, whichever is higher in the Monthly Bill. 
 
10.6 Quarterly and Annual Reconciliation 
 
10.6.1 The Parties acknowledge that all payments made against Monthly Bills 
and Supplementary Bills shall be subject to quarterly reconciliation within 30 
days of the end of the quarter at the beginning of the following quarter of each 
Contract Year and annual reconciliation at the end of each  Contract Year 
within 30 days to take into account the Energy Accounts, Tariff adjustment 
payments, Tariff Rebate, Late Payment Surcharge, or any other reasonable 
circumstance provided under this Agreement. 
10.6.2 The Parties, therefore, agree that as soon as all such data in respect of any 
quarter of a Contract Year or a full Contract Year as the case may be has  
been finally verified and adjusted, the BESSD and KSEBL shall jointly sign 
such reconciliation statement. Within fifteen (15) days of signing of a 
Page 58 of 101 
 
 
 
reconciliation statement, the BESSD shall make appropriate adjustments in the 
next Monthly Bill. Late Payment Surcharge/ interest shall be payable in such a 
case from the date on which such payment had been made to the invoicing 
Party or the date on which any payment was originally due, as may be 
applicable. Any Dispute with regard to the above reconciliation shall be dealt 
with in accordance with the provisions of Article 16. 
 
10.7 Payment of Supplementary Bill 
 
10.7.1 BESSD may raise a ("Supplementary Bill") for payment on account of: 
i. Adjustments required by the Energy Accounts (if applicable); or 
ii. Change in Law as provided in Article 12, or 
iii. Incentive payment as per Article 4.4.2 (b), 
And such Supplementary Bill shall be paid by the other Party. 
KSEBL shall remit all amounts due under a Supplementary Bill raised by the 
BESSD to the BESSD’s Designated Account after due verification of such bills. 
 
10.8 Viability Gap Funding 
10.8.1 In line with the sanction order O.M. issued by the Ministry of Power dated 
09.06.2025, BESSD is eligible for grant of Viability Gap Funding (VGF) support by 
the Government for development of Battery Energy Storage Systems, and the 
same will be disbursed as per PSDF guidelines. 
10.8.2. The VGF amount eligible for BESS is Rs. 90 for contracted capacity 
calculated @Rs. 18,00,000/MWh (Rupees Eighteen Lakhs per MWh). 
10.8.3 BESS Developer shall submit certificate for the capital cost incurred for the Project 
awarded capacity, duly certified by the Statutory Auditors, within  six months from 
the COD. 
10.8.4 For each Project, disbursement of VGF will be carried out in 3 tranches, as follows: 
Milestone for Disbursement of VGF % of total VGF 
disbursed 
On Financial Closure as per the BESPA, subject 
to submission of Bank Guarantee to KSEBL 
 
20 
On Commercial Operation Date (COD) of the 
Project 50 
Completion of 1st year from COD 30 
Total 100 
 
Page 59 of 101 
 
 
 
 
 
10.8.5 The VGF shall be disbursed to the BESSD, once KSEBL/ CEA certifies the 
achievement of the disbursement schedule milestone and submission of the required 
Bank Guarantee by BESSD. KSEBL shall disburse the tranche wise VGF to BESSD 
only after  receipt of the same from the Govt. of India and Submission of BG by 
BESSD as per RfS Clause 12.6. 
10.8.6 Each tranche of VGF will be disbursed only after submission of Bank Guarantees 
(BG) for the amount equal to the VGF amount to be disbursed to the BESSD in that 
tranche. These BGs are in addition to the Performance Bank Guarantee provided by 
the developer as per clause 19 of this RfS. The BGs for the VGF sanctioned up to 
COD will be retained by the KSEBL for a period of 1 year starting from the COD and 
will be returned after the end of 1 year from COD , taking into account recovery of 
VGF, if any. No BG is required against the disbursement of the last tranche of VGF 
post completion of one year of operation. These BGs shall be liable for encashment 
to recover the VGF amount in the event of non -fulfilment of the performance 
parameter(s) as per clause 4.4.2 and 4.4.3, if any plus interest @ SBI -MCLR (1 - 
Year) plus five -percent, accrued from the date of disbursement on the disbursed 
amount. 
If the BESSD fails to commission the project in the timeline provided in this BESPA, 
and project got terminated after disbursement of the quantum of VGF, KSEBL will 
have full right to recover the total amount of VGF being disbursed till the date of 
termination of BESPA plus interest @ SBI -MCLR (1 Year) plus five precent, as 
existing on the date of disbursement, accrued from the date of disbursement on the 
disbursed amount. In case Project capacity is being reduced as per article 4.6.1(b)  
of this PPA, recovery of VGF amount shall be made on pro-rata basis corresponding 
to the capacity being terminated. 
KSEBL will have the right to recover the VGF disbursed through encashment of 
BG, if the BESPA gets terminated within the first 2 years after COD of the Project, 
on account of reasons solely attributable to the BESSD. Irrespective of the year of 
termination within the first 2 years after COD, the VGF amount to be recovered will 
be fixed as the amount disbursed plus interest @ SBI -MCLR (1 Year) plus five 
precent, as existing on the date of disbursement, accrued from the date of 
disbursement on the disbursed amount. 
If the Project is transferred or sold to a third party during the above tenure, the  
Page 60 of 101 
 
 
 
BG will be re -issued by the new entity, corresponding to the amount applicable. 
The sale/transfer of the Project shall be effective only on submission of BG by 
new entity. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11: FORCE MAJEURE 
 
11.1 Definition of Force Majeure 
 
A ‘Force Majeure’ (FM) would mean one or more of the following acts, events or 
circumstances or a combination of acts, events or circumstances or the 
consequence(s) thereof, that wholly or partly prevents or unavoidably delays the 
performance by the Party (the Affected Party) of its obligations under this Agreement, 
but only if and to the extent that such events or circumstances are not within the 
reasonable control, directly or indirectly, of the Affected Party and could not have been 
avoided if the Affected Party had taken reasonable care or complied with Prudent 
Utility Practices. 
An Affected Party means KSEBL or the BESSD whose performance has been 
affected by an event of Force Majeure. 
11.2 Force Majeure Events 
a) Act of God, including, but not limited to lightning, fire and explosion (to the  
extent originating from a source external to the site), earthquake, volcanic 
eruption, landslide, flood, pandemic, cyclone, typhoon or tornado if it is 
declared / notified by the competent state / central authority / agency (as 
applicable), or verified to the satisfaction of Procurer; 
b) radioactive contamination or ionising radiation originating from a source in 
India or resulting from another Force Majeure Event mentioned above 
excluding circumstances where the source or cause of contamination or 
radiation is brought or has been brought into or near the Project by the 
Affected Party or those employed or engaged by the Affected Party. 
c) The discovery of geological conditions, toxic contamination or archaeological 
remains on the Project land that could not reasonably have been expected 
to be discovered through an inspection of the Project land and/or as per 
prudent industry practices. 
d) Exceptionally adverse weather condition which are in excess of the statistical 
measure of the last hundred (100) years. 
e) any act of war (whether declared or undeclared), invasion, armed conflict or 
Page 61 of 101 
 
 
 
act of foreign enemy, blockade, embargo, revolution, riot, insurrection, 
terrorist or military action, or Industrywide strikes and labour disturbances, 
having a nationwide impact in India, if and only if it is declared / notified by 
the competent state / central authority / agency (as applicable) 
f) Nationalisation or any compulsory acquisition by any Indian Governmental 
Instrumentality/ State Government in national interest or expropriation of  
any material Project assets or rights of the BESSD, as a result of which the 
BESSD or its shareholders are deprived (wholly or partly) of their rights or 
entitlements under this BESPA. Provided that such action does not 
constitute remedies or sanctions lawfully exercised by the Procurer or any 
other Government Authority as a result of any breach of any of the 
Applicable Laws or the Applicable Permits by the BESSD or the BESSD 
related parties 
11.3 Force Majeure Exclusions 
11.3.1 Force Majeure shall not include (i) any event or circumstance which is within  
the reasonable control of the Parties and (ii) the following conditions, except to 
the extent that they are consequences of an event of Force Majeure: 
a. Unavailability, late delivery, or changes in cost of the plant, machinery,  
equipment, materials, spare parts or consumables for the Power Project/ 
BESS; 
b. Delay in the performance of any contractor, sub-contractor or their agents; 
c. Non-performance resulting from normal wear and tear typically 
experienced in power generation / BESS materials and equipment; 
d. Strikes at the facilities of the Affected Party; 
e. Insufficiency of finances or funds or the agreement becoming onerous to 
perform; and 
f. Non-performance caused by, or connected with, the Affected Party’s: 
i. Negligent or intentional acts, errors or omissions or lack of due diligence 
expected from any prudent and rational human being; 
ii. Failure to comply with an Indian Law; or 
iii. Breach of, or default under this Agreement; and 
g. Non-insurance of the BESS project by the BESSD. 
 
11.4 Notification of Force Majeure Event 
11.4.1 The Affected Party shall give notice to the other Party of any event of Force 
Majeure as soon as reasonably practicable, but not later than fifteen (15) days 
Page 62 of 101 
 
 
 
after the date on which such Party knew or should reasonably have known of 
the commencement of the event of Force Majeure. If an event of Force Majeure 
results in a breakdown of communications rendering it unreasonable to give 
notice within the applicable time limit specified herein, then the Party claiming 
Force Majeure shall give such notice as soon as reasonably practicable after 
reinstatement of communications, but not later than one (1) day after such 
reinstatement. The Party who receives the Force Majeure Notification, shall  
take a decision on the claim of occurrence of Force Majeure Event, within 30 
days of the receipt of the intimation, accompanied with supporting documents 
available with the Affected Party. 
11.4.2 Provided that such notice shall be a pre -condition to the Affected Party’s 
entitlement to claim relief under this Agreement. Such notice shall include full 
particulars of the event of Force Majeure, its effects on the Party claiming 
relief and the remedial measures proposed. The Affected Party shall give the 
other Party regular (and not less than weekly) reports on the progress of 
those remedial measures and such other information as the other Party may 
reasonably request about the Force Majeure Event. 
11.4.3 The Affected Party shall give notice to the other Party of (i) the cessation of 
the relevant event of Force Majeure; and (ii) the cessation of the effects of 
such event of Force Majeure on the performance of its rights or obligations 
under this Agreement, as soon as practicable after becoming aware of each of 
these cessations. 
 
11.5 Performance Excused 
11.5.1 The Affected Party, to the extent rendered unable to perform its obligations  
or part of the obligation thereof under this Agreement as a consequence of 
the Force Majeure Event, shall be excused from performance of the 
obligations, provided that the period shall not exceed 180 (one hundred and 
eighty) Days from the date of issuance of the FM Notice or any extended 
period as mutually agreed. The Parties may mutually agree to extend the 
period for which performance is excused due to a Force Majeure Event. 
However, in case of the FM continuing upto a period of 180 days or any 
extended period as mutually agreed, either Party has the right to terminate 
the BESPA. 
11.5.2 For the time period, as mutually agreed by the Parties, during which the 
performance shall be excused, the BESSD shall be entitled for a day to day 
Page 63 of 101 
 
 
 
extension of the period provided for Financial Closure or Scheduled 
Commissioning Period or the BESPA period, as the case may be. However, 
adjustment in tariff shall not be allowed on account of Force Majeure event. 
11.5.3 Provided always that a Party shall be excused from performance only to the 
extent reasonably warranted by the Force Majeure Event. 
11.5.4 Provided further that, nothing shall absolve the Affected Party from any 
payment obligations accrued prior to the occurrence of the underlying Force 
Majeure Event. 
 
11.6 No Liability for Other Losses 
Save as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party shall be liable in any 
manner, whatsoever, to the other Parties in respect of any loss relating to or 
arising out of the occurrence or existence of any Force Majeure Event. 
 
11.7 Resumption of Performance 
During the period that a Force Majeure Event is subsisting, the Affected Party 
shall, in consultation with the other Parties, make all reasonable efforts to limit 
or mitigate the effects of such Force Majeure Event on the performance of its 
obligations under the BESPA. The Affected Party shall also make efforts to 
resume performance of its obligations under this Agreement as soon as 
possible and upon resumption, shall notify other Parties of the same in writing. 
The other Parties shall afford all reasonable assistance to the Affected Party in 
this regard. 
 
11.8 Duty to Perform and Duty to Mitigate 
To the extent not prevented by a Force Majeure Event pursuant to Article 
11.2, the Affected Party shall continue to  perform its obligations pursuant to 
this Agreement. The Affected Party shall use its reasonable efforts to mitigate 
the effect of any Force Majeure Event as soon as practicable. 
 
11.9 Available Relief for a Force Majeure Event 
 
Subject to this Article 11: 
(a) no Party shall be in breach of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement 
except to the extent that the performance of its obligations was prevented, 
hindered or delayed due to a Force Majeure Event; 
Page 64 of 101 
 
 
 
(b) every Party shall be entitled to claim relief in relation to a Force 
Majeure Event in regard to its obligations, including but not limited to 
those specified under Article 4.5; 
(c) For avoidance of doubt, neither Party’s obligation to make payments of 
money due and payable prior to occurrence of Force Majeure  events 
under this Agreement shall be suspended or excused due to the 
occurrence of a Force Majeure Event in respect of such Party. 
(d) Provided that no payments shall be made by either Party affected by a 
Force Majeure  Event for  the period of such event on account of its 
inability to perform its obligations due to such Force Majeure Event. 
 
11.10 Available Relief & Termination Due to Force Majeure Event 
a) If, prior to the completion of the 180 (one hundred and eighty) Day period 
(or any extended period) for a Force Majeure Event commencing from the 
date of issuance of the Force Majeure Notice, the Parties are of the 
reasonable view that a Force Majeure Event is likely to continue beyond 
such 180 (one hundred and eighty) Day period or any extended period 
agreed in pursuance of Article 11.5 (Performance Excused); or that it is 
uneconomic or impractical to restore the affected Unit, then the Parties 
may mutually decide to terminate the BESPA, and the termination shall 
take effect from the date on which such decision is taken. 
b) In case of occurrence of an event which is not a Force Majeure as per 
provision of this Agreement, but causes some hardship in development of  
the Project, which may or may not be recognized by the Government of 
India and for which the Government of India has or hasn’t granted any 
extension of time or any other relief; such event, even if sustained beyond 
180 days shall not be considered as a reason for termination of PPA  
under this Article. 
c) Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 11.10.(a) above, the Affected 
Party shall, after the expiry of the period of 180 (one hundred and eighty) 
Days or any other mutually extended period, be entitled to forthwith 
terminate the BESPA in its sole discretion by issuing a notice to that  
effect. 
d) On termination of the BESPA pursuant to Article 11.10.(b): 
i. In case of termination on account of event listed as Force Majeure as 
Page 65 of 101 
 
 
 
under Article 11.2 (a), (b), (c) and (d), no Termination Compensation 
shall be payable to the BESSD. 
ii. In case of termination at the instance of the BESSD, on account of an 
event listed as Force Majeure as per Article 11.2 (e) and (f) above, the 
Procurer will have the option to (but will not be obliged to) take - over 
the Project Assets by paying Debt Due. In case the Procurer chooses 
not to exercise the aforementioned option, and the same is not agreed 
to by the BESSD, it will result in a dispute as per the BESPA and will 
be resolved as per the Dispute Resolution mechanism under the 
BESPA. 
iii. the BESSD shall be eligible for undisputed payments under 
outstanding Monthly Bill(s), before the occurrence of Force Majeure 
Event. 
Page 66 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 12: CHANGE IN LAW 
12.1.1 In the event of occurrence of any of the events as provided under clause 2 of 
Electricity (Timely Recovery of Costs due to Change in Law) Rules, 2021 which 
results in any adverse financial loss/ gain to the BESSD/Buying Entity then, in 
order to ensure that the BESSD/Buying Entity is placed in the same financial 
position as it would have been had it not been for the occurrence of the 
Change in Law, the BESSD/ Buying Entity shall be entitled to compensation by 
the other party, as the case may be. The compensation payment on account of 
such 'Change in Law' shall be determined in accordance with the Electricity 
(Timely Recovery of Costs due to Change in Law) Rules, 2021 notified by 
Ministry of power vide notification dated 22nd October'2021 including 
amendments and clarifications thereof issued from time to time (Schedule -A) 
and shall be effective from such date as may be decided by the Appropriate 
Commission. 
 
12.2 Definitions 
In this Article 12, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
12.2.1  In this Article 12, the term Change in Law shall refer to the occurrence of any 
of the following events, after the last date of the bid submission, which have a 
direct effect on the Project, leading to corresponding changes in the cost 
requiring change in tariff, and includes: 
i. change in interpretation of any law by a competent court; or 
ii. the enactment of any new law; or 
iii. a change in any domestic tax, including duty, levy, cess, charge or 
surcharge by the Central Government, State Government or Union 
Territory administration leading to corresponding changes in the cost; 
or; 
iv. a change in any condition of an approval or license obtained or to be 
obtained for purchase, supply or transmission of electricity, unless 
specifically excluded in the agreement for the purchase, supply or 
transmission of electricity, which results in any change in the cost. 
However, Change in Law/ Regulation shall not include 
(i) any change in any taxes on corporate income or any change in any 
withholding tax on income or dividends, or 
(ii) change in respect of  settlement charges or frequency intervals by an 
Page 67 of 101 
 
 
 
Appropriate Commission. 
(iii) Any event occurring after the SCD/extended SCD, which would not have 
affected the Project had the Project been commissioned before the 
SCD/extended SCD. 
The term “law” in this provision, includes any Act, Ordinance, order, bye -law, 
rule, regulation, notification, for the time being in force, in the territory of India. 
12.2.2 In the event of occurrence of any of events as provided under Article 12.2.1 
which results in any adverse financial loss/ gain to the BESSD/Procurer then,  
in order to ensure that the BESSD/Procurer is placed in the same financial 
position as it would have been had it not been for the occurrence of the  
Change in Law, the BESSD/ Procurer shall be entitled to compensation by the 
other party, as the case may be. Compensation payment on account of such 
‘Change in Law’ shall be determined and shall be effective from such date as 
may be decided by the Appropriate Commission. 
12.2.3 Not used. 
12.3 Relief for Change in Law 
12.3.1 In case of Change in Law taking place prior to commissioning of the Project, the 
compensation will be passed through on in the form of increase/decrease in the 
tariff, linked with increase/decrease in the Project cost, which will be 
automatically paid through the monthly energy billing. The pass through in this 
case shall be as per the formula / provisions as stipulated in Schedule -A and 
shall be effective from date of commissioning of the Project. BESSD shall be 
required to provide a statutory auditor certificate supported by Board Resolution 
in regard to implications (loss/ gain) arising out of Article 12. 
12.3.2 In case of Change in Law taking place subsequent to commissioning of the 
Project capacity, and changes in taxes/duties/cess etc. are defined as a 
percentage or the ratio of the tariff, the changes will be automatically passed on 
as appropriate increment/decrement in the tariff, and will be paid through 
monthly energy billing. BESSD shall be required to provide a statutory auditor 
certificate supported by Board Resolution in regard to implications (loss/ gain) 
arising out of Article 12. 
12.3.3 For the purpose of Article 12.2.2 above, the affected party, which intends to 
adjust and recover the costs due to change in law, shall give a 21 days’ prior 
notice to the other party about the proposed impact in the tariff or charges, 
Page 68 of 101 
 
 
 
positive or negative, to be recovered from such other party. 
The affected party shall furnish to the other party, the computation of impact in 
tariff or charges to be adjusted and recovered, within 30 days of the occurrence 
of the change in law or on the expiry of 21 days from the date of the notice 
referred above, whichever is later, and the recovery of the proposed impact in 
tariff or charges shall start from the next billing cycle of the tariff. 
12.3.4 Within 30 days of coming into effect of such relief of Change in Law, the BESSD 
shall approach the Appropriate Commission for Truing up of the calculations on 
account of the above Change in Law events, failing which further payment will 
be discontinued and KSEBL shall make such deductions in the monthly tariff 
payments on immediate basis. In the event of any decision by the Appropriate 
Commission which modifies or cancels any changes in the tariff, 
recovery/additional payment of the amount already paid until then, will be done 
immediately. 
The Appropriate Commission shall verify the calculation and adjust the amount 
of the impact in the monthly tariff or charges within sixty days from the date of 
receipt of the relevant documents as required above. 
12.3.5 Further, in case of Change in Law during the operational period of the Project, 
and where such change is not applicable as an automatic modification in the 
tariff, suitable compensation will be provided as decided by the Appropriate 
Commission. 
12.3.6 In case Change in Law results in delay in commissioning of the Project, where 
cause and effect between these two can be clearly established, BIA may provide 
suitable time-extension in Financial Closure, Scheduled Commissioning Date or 
Scheduled Date of Commencement of Supply of Power, as the case may be. 
12.3.7 If the event of any decrease in the project cost by the BESSD or any income to 
the BESSD on account of any of the events as indicated above, BESSD, as per 
methodology / formula specified in Schedule -A, shall pass on the benefit of such 
reduction to KSEBL. In the event of the BESSD failing to comply with the 
aforementioned requirement, KSEBL shall make such deductions in the monthly 
tariff payments on immediate basis. 
12.3.8 After the adjustment of the amount of the impact in the tariff, the BESSD, shall 
adjust the monthly tariff or charges annually based on actual amount recovered/ 
paid, to ensure that the payment to the affected party is not more than the yearly 
Page 69 of 101 
 
 
 
annuity amount. 
12.3.9 The recovery of the impacted amount, in case of the fixed amount shall be,— 
(a) within a period of one-hundred eighty months; or 
(b) in case of recurring impact, until the impact persists 
 
 
12.4 Notification of Change in Law 
12.4.1 In case any increase or decrease in the Project Cost occurs due to Change in Law 
affecting the Tariff payable under this Agreement, in accordance with Article 12,  
the BESSD shall serve notice to KSEBL of such Change in Law for giving a three 
weeks prior notice about the proposed impact in tariff, positive or negative, to be 
recovered. BESSD, within thirty days of the occurrence of the change in law or on 
the expiry of three weeks from the date of the aforementioned notice referred 
whichever is later, shall furnish KSEBL, the computation of impact in tariff or 
charges to be adjusted and recovered. Such recovery and adjustment of the 
proposed impact in tariff or charges shall start from the next billing cycle of the 
tariff. 
12.4.2 Any notice service pursuant to this Article 12, shall provide, amongst other things, 
precise details of the Change in Law and its effect on the Project Cost and 
computation of change in Tariff which shall be supported by documentary 
evidences including Statutory Auditor Certificate to this effect so as to establish  
one to one correlation and its impact on the Project Cost. 
Page 70 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 13: EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND TERMINATION 
Not withstanding any thing provided in this section or in this agreement, it 
is clarified that BESS system being acquired out of Government Grants, it 
shall not be disposed of during the contract period without the prior 
approval of the sanctioning authority of Grants-in-Aid {Rule 230(9)}. 
 
13.1 BESSD Event of Default 
 
13.1.1 The occurrence and/or continuation of any of the following events, unless any 
such event occurs as a result of a Force Majeure Event or a breach by KSEBL 
or Buying Entity of its obligations under this Agreement, shall constitute an 
BESSD Event of Default: 
(i) the failure to commence availability of BESS for providing Energy Storage 
capacity to KSEBL up to the Contracted Capacity, by the end of the period 
specified in Article 4, or failure to demonstrate guaranteed availability of such 
energy storage capacity to KSEBL within six months from the identification of 
reduced monthly availability during the term of this Agreement, or 
if 
 
a) the BESSD assigns, mortgages or charges or purports to assign, mortgage 
or charge any of its assets or rights related to the Project in contravention of 
the provisions of this Agreement; or 
 
b) the BESSD transfers or novates any of its rights and/ or obligations under 
this agreement, in a manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement; 
except where such transfer 
 
• is in pursuance of a Law; and does not affect the ability of the transferee to 
perform, and such transferee has the financial capability to perform, its 
obligations under this Agreement or 
 
• is to a transferee who assumes such obligations under this Agreement  
and the Agreement remains effective with respect to the transferee; 
 
(ii) if (a) the BESSD becomes voluntarily or involuntarily the subject of any 
bankruptcy or insolvency or winding up proceedings and such proceedings 
remain uncontested for a period of thirty (30) days, or (b) any winding up or 
Page 71 of 101 
 
 
 
bankruptcy or insolvency order is passed against the BESSD, or (c) the 
BESSD goes into liquidation or dissolution or has a receiver or any similar 
officer appointed over all or substantially all of its assets or official liquidator is 
appointed to manage its affairs, pursuant to Law, provided that a dissolution or 
liquidation of the BESSD will not be a BESSD Event of Default if such 
dissolution or liquidation is for the purpose of a merger, consolidation or 
reorganization and where the resulting company retains creditworthiness 
similar to the BESSD and expressly assumes all obligations of the BESSD 
under this Agreement and is in a position to perform them; or 
(iii) the BESSD repudiates this Agreement and does not rectify such breach within 
a period of thirty (30) days from a notice from KSEBL in this regard; or 
(iv) except where due to any KSEBL’s failure to comply with its material 
obligations, the BESSD is in breach of any of its material obligations pursuant 
to this Agreement, and such material breach is not rectified by the BESSD 
within thirty (30) days of receipt of first notice in this regard given by KSEBL. 
(v) change in controlling shareholding before the specified time frame as 
mentioned in Article 4.1.1 of this Agreement; or 
(vi) occurrence of any other event which is specified in this Agreement to be a 
material breach/ default of the BESSD. 
 
13.2 KSEBL Event of Default 
 
13.2.1 The occurrence and the continuation of any of the  following events, unless any 
such event occurs as a result of a Force Majeure Event or a breach by the 
BESSD of its obligations under this Agreement, shall constitute the Event of 
Default on the part of defaulting KSEBL: 
(i) KSEBL fails to pay (with respect to a Monthly Bill or a Supplementary 
Bill), subject to Article 10.3.3 & 10.5, for a period of ninety (90) days 
after the Due Date and the BESSD is unable to recover the amount 
outstanding to the BESSD through the Letter of Credit, 
(ii) KSEBL repudiates this Agreement and does not rectify such breach 
even within a period of sixty (60) days from a notice from the BESSD in 
this regard; or 
(iii) except where due to any BESSD’s failure to comply with its obligations, 
KSEBL is in material breach of any of its obligations pursuant to this 
Page 72 of 101 
 
 
 
Agreement, and such material breach is not rectified by KSEBL within 
sixty (60) days of receipt of notice in this regard from the BESSD to 
KSEBL; or if 
a. KSEBL becomes voluntarily or involuntarily the subject of any bankruptcy 
or insolvency or winding up proceedings and such proceedings remain 
uncontested for a period of sixty (60) days, or 
b. any winding up or bankruptcy or insolvency order is passed against 
KSEBL, or 
 
 
c. KSEBL goes into liquidation or dissolution or a receiver or any similar 
officer is appointed over all or substantially all of its assets or official 
liquidator is appointed to manage its affairs, pursuant to Law, provided 
that it shall not constitute a KSEBL Event of Default, where such 
dissolution or liquidation of Buyer or KSEBL is for the purpose of a  
merger, consolidation or reorganization and where the resulting entity  
has the financial standing to perform its obligations under this Agreement 
and has creditworthiness similar to KSEBL and expressly assumes all 
obligations of KSEBL and is in a position to perform them; or; 
(iv) If Buying Entities are subject to any of the above defaults and KSEBL 
does not designate another or other Buying Entities for purchase of 
power. 
 
13.3 Procedure for cases of BESSD Event of Default 
 
13.3.1 Upon the occurrence and continuation of any BESSD Event of Default under 
Article 13.1, KSEBL shall have the right to deliver to the BESSD, with a copy to 
the representative of the lenders to the BESSD with whom the BESSD has 
executed the Financing Agreements, a notice stating its intention to terminate 
this Agreement ( KSEBL Preliminary Default Notice), which shall specify in 
reasonable detail, the circumstances giving rise to the issue of such notice. 
 
13.3.2 Following the issue of a KSEBL Preliminary Default Notice, the Consultation 
Period of ninety (90) days or such longer period as the Parties may agree,  
shall apply and it shall be the responsibility of the Parties to discuss as to what 
steps shall be taken with a view to mitigate the consequences of the relevant 
Page 73 of 101 
 
 
 
Event of Default having regard to all the circumstances. 
 
13.3.3 During the Consultation Period, the Parties shall continue to perform their 
respective obligations under this Agreement. 
13.3.4 Within a period of seven (7) days following the expiry of the Consultation 
Period unless the Parties shall have otherwise agreed to the contrary or the 
BESSD Event of Default giving rise to the Consultation Period shall have 
ceased to exist or shall have been remedied, KSEBL may terminate this 
Agreement by giving a written Termination Notice of sixty (60) days to the 
BESSD. 
 
13.3.5 Subject to the terms of this Agreement, upon occurrence of an BESSD Event  
of Default under this Agreement, the BESSD shall be liable to pay to KSEBL, 
liquidated damages, as provided in Article 4.6 of the BESPA for failure to 
commission within stipulated time and Article 4.4.1 for failure to supply power 
in terms of the BESPA. For other cases, the BESSD shall be liable pay to 
KSEBL, damages, equivalent to 6 (six) months, or balance BESPA period 
whichever is less, of charges for its contracted capacity. KSEBL shall have the 
right to recover the said damages by way of forfeiture of bank 
guarantee/Payment on Order Instrument, if any, without prejudice to resorting 
to any other legal course or remedy. In addition to the levy of damages as 
aforesaid, the lenders in concurrence with the Buying Entity and KSEBL, may 
exercise their rights, if any, under Financing Agreements, to seek substitution 
of the BESSD by a selectee for the residual period of the Agreement, for the 
purpose of securing the payments of the total debt amount from the BESSD 
and performing the obligations of the BESSD. However, in the event the 
lenders are unable to substitute the defaulting BESSD within the stipulated 
period, and if the Buying Entity desires to acquire the Project assets, it may do 
so, by paying to the BESSD, a compensation as mutually decided by the 
Buying Entity and the lender. In case the Buying Entity chooses not to exercise 
the above option, or the Buying Entity and the lender are unable to come to an 
agreement, the lenders may liquidate the Project assets and recover their 
dues, as the last resort. Provided that any substitution under this Agreement 
can only be made with the prior consent of KSEBL including the condition that 
the selectee meets the eligibility requirements of Request for Selection (RfS) 
Page 74 of 101 
 
 
 
issued by KSEBL and accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 
 
13.3.6 The lenders in concurrence with the KSEBL, may seek to exercise  right of 
substitution under Article 13.3.5 by an amendment or novation of the BESPA in 
favour of the selectee. The BESSD shall cooperate with KSEBL to carry out 
such substitution and shall have the duty and obligation to continue to  operate 
the Project in accordance with this BESPA till such time as the substitution is 
finalized. In the event of Change in  Shareholding/Substitution of Promoters 
triggered by the Financial Institutions leading to signing of  fresh BESPA with a 
new entity, an amount of Rs. 10  Lakh per Project+ 18% GST per transaction 
as facilitation fee  (non-refundable) shall be deposited by the BESSD to 
KSEBL. 
13.4 Procedure for cases of KSEBL Event of Default 
 
13.4.1 Upon the occurrence and continuation of any KSEBL Event of Default specified 
in Article 13.2, the BESSD shall have the right to deliver to KSEBL, a BESSD 
Preliminary Default Notice, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the 
circumstances giving rise to its issue. 
 
13.4.2 Following the issue of a BESSD Preliminary Default Notice, the Consultation 
Period of ninety (90) days or such longer period as the Parties may agree,  
shall apply and it shall be the responsibility of the Parties to discuss as to what 
steps shall be taken with a view to mitigate the consequences of the relevant 
Event of Default having regard to all the circumstances. 
 
13.4.3 During the Consultation Period, the Parties shall continue to perform their 
respective obligations under this Agreement. 
 
13.4.4 After a period of two hundred ten (210) days following the expiry of the 
Consultation Period and unless the Parties shall have otherwise agreed to the 
contrary or KSEBL Event of Default giving rise to the Consultation Period shall 
have ceased to exist or shall have been remedied, KSEBL under intimation to 
Buying Entity and BESSD shall, subject to the prior consent of the BESSD, 
novate its part of the BESPA to any third party, including its Affiliates, within  
the stipulated period. In this case, KSEBL shall pay amount equivalent to 3 
(three) months of energy billing based on the declared availability, or balance 
Page 75 of 101 
 
 
 
Term of the BESPA, whichever is less, for its Contracted Capacity, with the 
Project assets being retained by the BESSD, and exit from the BESPA. In the 
event the aforesaid novation is not acceptable to the BESSD, or if no offer of 
novation is made by KSEBL within the stipulated period, then the BESSD may 
terminate the BESPA and choose to either continue operating the Project by 
itself finding an alternate procurer or to discontinue the operation of the  
Project. If the BESSD chooses to continue operating the project, KSEBL will 
pay to the BESSD, ‘termination compensation’ equivalent to 6 (six) months of 
energy billing corresponding to the declared availability, or balance Term of  
the BESPA, whichever is less, for its Contracted Capacity. If the BESSD 
decides to discontinue the operation of the Project, it may  require KSEBL to 
make a payment of the 'termination compensation' which will be equivalent to  
the amount of the Debt due and 110% (one hundred and ten per cent) of the 
Adjusted Equity, less Insurance Cover if any.  
Provided further that at the end of three (3) months period from the period 
mentioned in this Article 13.4.4, this Agreement may be terminated by the 
BESSD. 
In the event of termination of BESPA, on account of Event of Default by the 
BESSD/ KSEBL, any damages or charges payable to the STU/ CTU, for the 
connectivity of the plant, shall be borne by the entity due to whose failure, the 
termination was triggered. 
 
13.5 Termination due to Force Majeure 
 
If the Force Majeure Event or its effects continue to be present beyond the 
period as specified in Article 4.5.3, either Party shall have the right to cause 
termination of the Agreement. In such an event, this Agreement shall terminate 
on the date of such Termination Notice without any further liability to either 
Party from the date of such termination. 
13.6 In all cases, the lenders may also step in where appropriate as provided in the 
financing documents. Further, in all cases, the defaulting Party will be required 
to pay the applicable compensation including VGF disbursed (VGF 
disbursement as a compensation only when the defaulting party is BESSD) by 
BIA within 3 months from the date of such default, subsequent to which, the 
defaulting Party will be required to pay a monthly interest @1% of the 
compensation. 
Page 76 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 14: LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION 
 
14.1 Indemnity 
 
14.1.1 The BESSD shall indemnify, defend and hold KSEBL harmless against: 
a) any and all third party claims against KSEBL for any loss of or damage to 
property of such third party, or death or injury to such third party, arising  
out of a breach by the BESSD of any of its obligations under this 
Agreement or due to the BESSD’s willful misconduct, gross negligence or 
fraudulent behavior or violations of Applicable Law; and 
b) any and all losses, damages, costs and expenses including legal costs, 
fines, penalties and interest actually suffered or incurred by KSEBL from 
third party claims arising by reason of a breach by the BESSD of any of its 
obligations under this Agreement, (provided that this Article 14 shall not 
apply to such breaches by the BESSD, for which specific remedies have 
been provided for under this Agreement). 
 
14.1.2 KSEBL shall cause the Buying Entity(ies) to indemnify, defend and hold the 
BESSD harmless from and against: 
any and all claims, liabilities, actions, demands, judgments, losses, costs, 
expenses, suits, actions and damages arising by reason of bodily injury,  
death or damage to property sustained by third parties that are caused by an 
act of negligence or the willful misconduct of KSEBL, or by an officer, director, 
sub-contractor, agent or employee of KSEBL except to the extent of such 
injury, death or damage as is attributable to the willful misconduct or 
negligence of, or breach of this Agreement by, the BESSD, or by an officer, 
director, sub-contractor, agent or employee of the BESSD. 
 
14.2 Procedure for claiming Indemnity 
 
14.2.1 Third party claims 
 
a. Where the Indemnified Party is entitled to indemnification from the 
Indemnifying Party pursuant to Article 14.1.1(a) or 14.1.2(a), the Indemnified 
Party shall promptly notify the Indemnifying Party of such claim referred to in 
Article 14.1.1(a) or 14.1.2(a) in respect of which it is entitled to be indemnified. 
Such notice shall be given as soon as reasonably practicable after the 
Page 77 of 101 
 
 
 
Indemnified Party becomes aware of such claim. The  Indemnifying Party shall 
be liable to settle the indemnification claim within thirty (30) days of receipt of 
the above notice. Provided however that, if: 
i) the Parties choose to refer the dispute in accordance with Article 
16.3.2; and 
ii) the claim amount is not required to be paid/ deposited to such third 
party pending the resolution of the Dispute, 
 
the Indemnifying Party shall become liable to pay the claim amount to the 
Indemnified Party or to the third party, as the case may be, promptly following 
the resolution of the Dispute, if such Dispute is not settled in favour of the 
Indemnified Party. 
 
b. The Indemnified Party may contest the claim by referring to the Appropriate 
Commission for which it is entitled to be Indemnified under Article 14.1.1(a) or 
14.1.2(a) and the Indemnifying Party shall reimburse to the Indemnified Party 
all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Indemnified party.  
However, such Indemnified Party shall not settle or compromise such claim 
without first getting the consent of the Indemnifying Party, which consent shall 
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 
 
An Indemnifying Party may, at its own expense, assume control of the defence 
of any proceedings brought against the Indemnified Party if it acknowledges its 
obligation to indemnify such Indemnified Party, gives such Indemnified Party 
prompt notice of its intention to assume control of the defence, and employs  
an independent legal counsel at its own cost that is reasonably satisfactory to 
the Indemnified Party. 
 
14.3 Indemnifiable Losses 
 
14.3.1 Where an Indemnified Party is entitled to Indemnifiable Losses from the 
Indemnifying Party pursuant to Article 14.1.1(b) or 14.1.2(b), the Indemnified 
Party shall promptly notify the Indemnifying Party of the Indemnifiable Losses 
actually incurred by the Indemnified Party. The Indemnifiable Losses shall be 
reimbursed by the Indemnifying Party within thirty (30) days of receipt of the 
notice seeking Indemnifiable Losses by the Indemnified Party. In case of 
nonpayment of such losses after a valid notice under this Article 14.3, such 
Page 78 of 101 
 
 
 
event shall constitute a payment default under Article 13. 
14.4 Limitation on Liability 
 
14.4.1 Except as  expressly provided in this Agreement, neither the BESSD nor 
KSEBL nor Buying  Entity nor its/  their respective  officers, directors, agents, 
employees or affiliates (or their officers, directors, agents or employees), shall 
be liable or responsible to the other Party or its affiliates, officers, directors, 
agents, employees, successors or permitted assigns or their respective 
insurers for incidental, indirect or consequential  damages, connected with or 
resulting from performance or non-performance of this Agreement, or anything 
done in connection herewith, including claims in the  nature of lost revenues, 
income or profits (other than payments expressly required and properly due 
under this Agreement), any increased  expense of, reduction in or loss of 
power generation or equipment used therefore, irrespective of whether such 
claims are based upon breach of warranty, tort (including negligence, whether 
of Buying Entity, the BESSD or others), strict liability, contract, breach of  
statutory duty, operation of law or otherwise. 
 
14.4.2 KSEBL shall have no recourse against any  officer, director or shareholder of  
the BESSD or any Affiliate of the BESSD or any of its officers, directors or 
shareholders for such claims excluded under this Article. The BESSD shall 
have no recourse against any officer, director or shareholder of KSEBL or 
Buying Entity, or any affiliate of KSEBL or any of its officers, directors or 
shareholders for such claims excluded under this Article. 
 
14.5 KSEBL’s Liability 
14.5.1 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the 
Parties acknowledge and accept that the KSEBL is a utility governed by 
provisions of the Electricity Act 2003 and, therefore, the performance of the 
obligations of the KSEBL under this Agreement shall be subject to the ability of 
the KSEBL to enforce the obligations as per provisions of the Electricity Act 2003 
subject to approval of the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission . It is 
however, specifically agreed that the payment of money becoming due from the 
KSEBL to the BESSD under this Agreement for supply of Energy / Capacity to 
the extent of the Contracted Capacity shall be as per the recourse in the BESPA. 
Page 79 of 101 
 
 
 
KSEBL shall discharge the tariff payment obligation in terms of the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
 
14.6 Duty to Mitigate 
 
14.6.1 The Parties shall endevour to take all reasonable steps so as mitigate any loss 
or damage which has occurred under this Article 14. 
Page 80 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 15: ASSIGNMENTS AND CHARGES 
 
15.1 Assignments 
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of the Parties 
and their respective successors and permitted assigns. This Agreement shall 
not be assigned by any Party, other than by mutual consent between the 
Parties to be evidenced in writing. Such assignment shall be agreed to by 
 
KSEBL subject to the compliance of provisions contained in this Agreement 
and more specifically to the provisions of Article 4.1.1 of this Agreement. In no 
case, such assignment shall be permissible prior to the declaration of COD. 
 
Notwithstanding above, this Agreement may be assigned to the Project 
Lenders or Lender’s Representative under the Financing Agreements, under 
intimation to KSEBL. 
 
Provided that, such consent will not be withheld if KSEBL seeks to transfer to 
any transferee all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement. 
 
The enforcement of the rights and obligation between the BESSD and the 
Buying Utility provided in this Agreement shall not be  treated as an 
assignment but an enforcement of the terms agreed under this Agreement. 
 
Provided further that any successor(s) or permitted assign(s) identified after 
mutual agreement between the Parties may be required to execute a new 
agreement on the same terms and conditions as are included in this 
Agreement. An amount of Rs. 5 Lakh per Transaction as Facilitation Fee  (non- 
refundable) shall be deposited by the BESSD to KSEBL. Provided further that, 
such consent shall not be withheld by the BESSD if KSEBL seeks to transfer 
to any affiliate all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement. 
 
In the event of Change in Shareholding/Substitution of Promoters triggered by 
the Financial Institutions leading to signing of fresh BESPA with a new entity, 
an amount of Rs. 10 Lakh per Transaction as Facilitation Fee (non-refundable) 
shall be deposited by the BESSD to KSEBL. 
Page 81 of 101 
 
 
 
15.2 Permitted Charges 
15.2.1 BESSD shall not create or permit to subsist any encumbrance over all 
or any of its rights and benefits under this Agreement, other than as set forth in 
Article 15.1 and the Guidelines. 
Page 82 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 16: GOVERNING LAW AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 
16.1 Governing Law 
 
16.1.1 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the 
Laws of India. Any legal proceedings in respect of any matters, claims or 
disputes under this Agreement shall be under the jurisdiction of appropriate 
courts in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. The courts at Thiruvananthapuram, 
Kerala, shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all matters arising out of or in 
connection with this Agreement, subject always to the adjudicatory powers of 
the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission under the Electricity Act, 
2003. 
 
16.2 Amicable Settlement and Dispute Resolution 
 
16.2.1 Amicable Settlement 
 
i. Either Party is entitled to raise any claim, dispute or difference of whatever 
nature arising under, out of or in connection with this Agreement (“Dispute”) 
by giving a written notice (Dispute Notice) to the other Party, which shall 
contain: 
(a) a description of the Dispute; 
(b) the grounds for such Dispute; and 
(c) all written material in support of its claim. 
 
 
ii. The other Party shall, within thirty (30) days of issue of Dispute Notice issued 
under Article 16.2.1(i), furnish: 
(a) counter-claim and defences, if any, regarding the Dispute; and 
(b) all written material in support of its defences and counter-claim. 
iii. Within thirty (30) days of issue of Dispute Notice by any Party pursuant to 
Article 16 
(i) if the other Party does not furnish any counter claim or defence under 
Article 16 
(ii) or thirty (30) days from the date of furnishing counter claims or defence 
by the other Party, both the Parties to the Dispute shall meet to settle 
such Dispute amicably.  If the Parties fail to resolve the Dispute  
amicably within thirty (30) days from the later of the dates mentioned in 
Page 83 of 101 
 
 
 
this Article 16.2.1. 
(iii) the Dispute shall be referred for dispute resolution in accordance with 
Article 16.3. 
Page 84 of 101 
 
 
 
16.3 Dispute Resolution 
16.3.1 Dispute Resolution by the Appropriate Commission 
i) Where any Dispute or differences arises in relation to this agreement of any 
nature whatsoever including the construction, interpretation or 
implementation of the provisions of this Agreement as well as claim made  
by any Party for any change in or determination of the Tariff or any matter 
related to Tariff or claims made by any Party which partly or wholly relate to 
any change in the Tariff or determination of any of such claims could result 
in change in the Tariff, and relates to any matter  agreed to be referred to 
the Appropriate Commission,  shall be submitted to adjudication by the 
Appropriate Commission. Appeal against the decisions of the Appropriate 
Commission shall be made only as per the provisions of the Electricity Act, 
2003, as amended from time to time. 
 
16.4 Parties to Perform Obligations 
 
16.4.1 Notwithstanding the existence of any Dispute and difference referred to the 
Appropriate Commission and save as the Appropriate Commission may 
otherwise direct by a final or interim order, the Parties hereto shall continue to 
perform their respective obligations (which are not in dispute) under this 
Agreement. 
Page 85 of 101 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
 
17.1 Amendment 
 
17.1.1 This Agreement may only be amended or supplemented by a written 
agreement between the Parties. 
 
17.2 Third Party Beneficiaries 
 
17.2.1 Subject to provisions contained in this agreement, this Agreement is solely for 
the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted 
assigns and shall not be construed as creating any duty, standard of care or 
any liability to, any person not a party to this Agreement. 
 
17.3 Waiver 
 
17.3.1 No waiver by either Party of any default or breach by the other Party in the 
performance of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective 
unless in writing duly executed by an authorised representative of such Party. 
 
17.3.2 Neither the failure by either Party to insist on any occasion upon the 
performance of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement nor  
time or other indulgence granted by one Party to the other Parties shall act as 
a waiver of such breach or acceptance of any variation or the relinquishment  
of any such right or any other right under this Agreement, which shall remain in 
full force and effect. 
 
17.4 Confidentiality 
 
17.4.1 The Parties undertake to hold in confidence this Agreement and not to disclose 
the terms and conditions of the transaction contemplated hereby to third 
parties, except: 
a) to their professional advisors; 
b) to their officers, contractors, employees, agents or representatives, 
financiers, who need to have access to such information for the proper 
performance of their activities; or 
c) disclosures required under Law, without the prior written consent of the 
other Party. 
 
Page 86 of 101 
 
 
 
17.5 Severability 
 
17.5.1 The invalidity or unenforceability, for any reason, of any part of this Agreement 
shall not prejudice or affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of this 
Agreement, unless the part held invalid or unenforceable is fundamental to this 
Agreement. 
 
17.6 Notices 
17.6.1 All notices or other communications which are required to be given under this 
Agreement shall be in writing and in the English language. 
 
17.6.2 If to the BESSD, all notices or other communications which are required must 
be delivered personally or by registered post or facsimile or any other method 
duly acknowledged to the addresses below: 
 
Address : 
Attention : 
Email : 
Fax. No. : 
Telephone No. : 
17.6.3 If to KSEBL, all notices or communications must be delivered personally or 
by registered post or facsimile or any other mode duly acknowledged to the 
address(es) below: 
 
(i) Address : 
 
Attention : 
Email : 
Fax. No. : 
Telephone No. : 
 
17.6.4 All notices or communications given by facsimile shall be confirmed by sending 
a copy of the same via post office in an envelope properly addressed to the 
appropriate Party for delivery by registered mail. All notices shall be deemed 
validly delivered upon receipt evidenced by an acknowledgement of the 
recipient, unless the Party delivering the notice can prove in case of delivery 
Page 87 of 101 
 
 
 
through the registered post that the recipient refused to acknowledge the 
receipt of the notice despite efforts of the postal authorities. 
17.6.5 Any Party may by notice of at least fifteen (15) days to the other Party change 
the address and/or addresses to which such notices and communications to it 
are to be delivered or mailed. 
 
17.7 Language 
 
17.7.1 All agreements, correspondence and communications between the Parties 
relating to this Agreement and all other documentation to be prepared and 
supplied under the Agreement shall be written in English, and the Agreement 
shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with English language. 
 
17.7.2  If any of the agreements, correspondence, communications or 
documents are prepared in any language other than English, the English 
translation of such agreements, correspondence, communications or 
documents shall prevail in matters of interpretation. 
 
17.8 Restriction of Shareholders / Owners’ Liability 
 
17.8.1 Parties expressly agree and acknowledge that none of the shareholders of the 
Parties hereto shall be liable to the other Parties for any of the contractual 
obligations of the concerned Party under this Agreement. Further, the financial 
liabilities of the shareholder/s of each Party to this Agreement, shall be 
restricted to the extent provided in the Indian Companies Act, 2013. 
 
17.9 Taxes and Duties 
 
17.9.1 The BESSD shall bear and promptly pay all statutory taxes, duties, levies and 
cess, assessed/ levied on the BESSD, contractors or their employees that are 
required to be paid by the BESSD as per the Law in relation to the execution  
of the Agreement and for supplying power as per the terms of this Agreement. 
 
17.9.2 KSEBL shall be indemnified and held harmless by the BESSD against any 
claims that may be made against KSEBL in relation to the matters set out in 
Article 17.9.1. 
 
17.9.3 KSEBL shall not be liable for any payment of, taxes, duties, levies, cess 
Page 88 of 101 
 
 
 
whatsoever for discharging any obligation of the BESSD by KSEBL on behalf 
of BESSD. 
 
17.10 Independent Entity 
 
17.10.1  The BESSD shall be an independent entity performing its obligations 
pursuant to the Agreement. 
 
17.10.2 Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, the BESSD shall be solely 
responsible for the manner in which its obligations under this Agreement  
are to be performed. All employees and representatives of the BESSD or 
contractors engaged by the BESSD in connection with the performance of 
the Agreement shall be under the complete control of the BESSD and shall 
not be deemed to be employees, representatives, contractors of KSEBL 
and nothing contained in the Agreement or in any agreement or contract 
awarded by the BESSD shall be construed to create any contractual 
relationship between any such employees, representatives or contractors 
and KSEBL. 
 
17.11 Compliance with Law 
Despite anything contained in this Agreement but without prejudice to this 
Article, if any provision of this Agreement shall be in deviation or  
inconsistent with or repugnant to the provisions contained in the Electricity 
Act, 2003, or any rules and regulations made there under, such provision of 
this Agreement shall be deemed to be amended to the extent required to 
bring it into compliance with the aforesaid relevant provisions as amended 
from time to time. 
 
The Agreement for Battery Energy Storage System and supply of electricity 
to the Buying entity(s), to be read particularly, to fulfill the Energy Storage 
Obligations under the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 and the 
Regulations notified thereunder. 
 
17.12 Breach of Obligations 
 
The Parties acknowledge that a breach of any of the obligations contained 
herein would result in injuries. The Parties further acknowledge that the 
Page 89 of 101 
 
 
 
amount of the liquidated damages or the method of calculating the liquidated 
damages specified in this Agreement is a genuine and reasonable pre - 
estimate of the damages that may be suffered by the non -defaulting party in 
each case specified under this Agreement. 
17.13 Order of priority in application 
In case of inconsistencies between the agreement(s) executed between  
the Parties, applicable Law including rules and regulations framed 
thereunder, the order of priority as between them shall be the order in 
which they are placed below: 
i. applicable Law, rules and regulations framed thereunder; 
ii. the Grid Code; and 
iii. the terms and conditions of this Agreement; 
Now therefore, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements, covenants and 
conditions set forth herein, it is hereby agreed by and between the Parties as follows: 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have caused the Agreement to be executed through 
their duly authorized representatives as of the date and place set forth above. 
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of 
[KSEBL]  [BESSD] 
 
 
Name, Designation and Address Name, Designation and Address 
 
Signature with seal Signature with seal 
 
Witness: 
1. 
 
 
2. 
 
Witness: 
1. 
 
 
2. 
Page 90 of 101 
 
 
 
Schedule-A: 
FORMULA FOR DETERMINATION OF IMPACT IN TARIFF OR CHARGES DUE TO 
CHANGE IN LAW: 
Formula to calculate adjustment in the tariff due to the impact of Change in Law, which is 
non-recurring in nature— 
 
Let financial impact of change in law = P; then the modification in the monthly tariff (MT) 
for compensating the financial impact is given by— 
 
where X = Contracted Capacity (MW) / (Average Availability during the Month-1); 
and ; 
where,— 
n = No. of months over which the financial impact has to be paid (subject to a maximum of 
180 months in case of the non-recurring fixed amount but in case of recurring impact it will 
be till the impact persists); and Mr= monthly rate of interest =  ; 
where R = annual rate of interest on loan component (in %) as considered by the Central 
Electricity Regulatory Commission in its Order for Tariff determination from Conventional 
or Renewable Energy Sources (whichever is applicable) for the year in which the project is 
commissioned. In absence of relevant Orders of the Central Electricity Regulatory 
Commission for the concerned year, the interest rate shall be average interest rate plus 
200 basis points above the average State Bank of India Marginal Cost of Funds based 
leading rate, of one year tenor, prevalent during the last available six months for such 
period. 
Further, the BESSD shall true up the MT annually so as to ensure that the payment to the 
affected party is capped at the yearly annuity amount. 
Any such change shall be considered upto three digits after the decimal point, and 
remaining digits, if any, shall be ignored. 
For e.g. in case the change in tariff payable is calculated as Rs. 0.14678/MW, it shall be 
modified as Rs. 0.146/MW. 

Page 91 of 101 
 
 
 
Schedule-B Performance Criteria & Calculation under BESPA: 
1. Power rating of the project capacity of 500 MWh (250 MW x 2 hrs) BESS will be 250 
MW, i.e., the maximum value of the active output at the Delivery Point. Input energy 
shall be provided by KSEBL at delivery point for contract capacity as illustrated in 8.1 
(b). The Energy rating of 500 MWh of the system will be the dispatchable capacity at 
COD of the system, as measured at the Metering Point. Terms and definitions of 
terminologies related to BESS shall be as defined in IEC 62933-2-1. 
2. The BESSD shall make the BESS available for Single operational cycles per day , 
i.e. One complete charge-discharge cycle per day.  
Provided that KSEBL, at its discretion, can split the discharge of the stored 
energy upto three sessions. The discharge may also be performed at below the 
rated power, stretching upto 8 Hours. For purpose of BESS operation, a day shall 
be reckoned as from 06:00 hrs on a day to 06:00 hrs on next day. The discharge 
extended beyond 24:00 hrs shall be reckoned to be performed on the same day. 
There shall be no mandatory cooling period between two sessions of same 
operation. (Charging or Discharging). Similarly, the charging may also be 
performed upto 10 hours and upto three sessions. 
The BESS shall be operated for occasional dual cycles in a day subject maximum 
of 5 (Five) dual cycle days in a month, however subject to the annual limit of 400 
cycles. 
It is hereby clarified that the BESS should be designed to provide a minimum of 2 
Hours of discharging capacity at rated power. However, KSEBL, at its sole 
discretion, can schedule discharging of the BESS upto three sessions each day, 
at rated power or stretching upto 8 Hours when discharged below rated power. 
 
Illustration (Discharge) : 
(1) 
Session Time Power 
(MW) 
Duration 
(Minutes) 
Energy 
Discharged 
(MWh) 
1 17:00 to 17:15 20 15 5 
     
2 18:00 to 18:30 100 30 50 
 18:30 to 19:30 250 60 250 
 19:30 to 20:00 40 30 20 
     
3 20:30 to 22:15 100 105 175 
   195 500 
(2) 
Page 92 of 101 
 
 
 
Session Time Power 
(MW) 
Duration 
(Minutes) 
Energy 
Discharge
d 
(MWh) 
1 18:00 to 01:00 50 420 350 
2 01:30 to 02:00 250 30 125 
3 02:30 to 03:00 50 30 25 
   480 500 
 
b. Following provisions shall be applicable on the entire Project Capacity guaranteed 
to be off taken by KSEBL: 
i. The procurement shall be in power (MW) terms. The BESSD shall install, operate 
and maintain the BESS to offer facility to KSEBL to charge and discharge the 
BESS on an “on demand” basis. The BESSD shall guarantee a minimum system 
availability of 95% on annual basis for Charging Cycles. The BESSD shall pay the 
liquidated damages for shortfall, if any, to KSEBL. Amount of such liquidated 
damages shall be 1.5 Times the Capacity Charges for the capacity not made 
available during charging cycles. The BESSD shall declare availability on Day 
Ahead Basis. The BESSD should provide the DC (Declared Capacity) for each 
time block for the day before 09:00 hours the previous day. The tentative 
instructions for scheduling of charging and discharging will be issued by SLDC by 
15:00 hours on the previous day. 
Schedule revisions will be issued by SLDC upto two clear 15 -minute time blocks 
prior to the schedule period. However, as per Grid requirements, the SLDC shall 
request real-time schedule revisions, which shall be implemented real time and no 
later than the end of next time block. 
Revisions to the Declared Capacity (DC) by the BESSD shall be submitted at least 
six clear 15 -minute time block in advance. Frequent revision to DC, especially 
during evening peak hours, shall not be entertained and no more than two such 
revisions shall be permitted from 18:00 to 22:00 hours in a month. The discharge 
schedule from SLDC shall not be altered in such cases and will be treated as 
shortfall in discharge commitment. 
Intrastate Deviation Settlement Mechanism (DSM) shall become applicable as and 
when notified by KSERC / CERC. 
The Monthly Average Availability shall be calculated for each month. On the basis 
of monthly Availability, Annual Average Availability shall be calculated. The 
illustration is provided as under: 
ILLUSTRATION: 
 
 
Month 
Monthly 
Average 
Availability 
Annual Average Availability = 
{Σ (Monthly Average Availability)}/ 12 
1 95%  
 
 
2 95% 
3 93% 
4 97% 
Page 93 of 101 
 
 
 
5 93% 
 
(95%+95%+93%+97%+93%+98% 
+95%+92%+96%+95%+91%+90%) /12 
= 94.16 % 
6 98% 
7 95% 
8 92% 
9 96% 
10 95% 
11 91% 
12 90% 
 
ii. “Availability” of the Project shall mean the ability of the BESS to execute a function 
i.e. charging or discharging, when called upon to do so, as per the schedule or 
signal provided by the off -taker, subject to the minimum system ratings specified 
herein. In addition, the BESSD shall also demonstrate, on annual basis, 100% of 
the minimum dispatchable capacity of the BESS  as required under Clause 
8.1.e.iv below. 
For a given BESPA, the Annual availability guarantee during Charging period shall 
commence from the date of fully commissioning of the system and shall be 
calculated as below: 
Monthly System Availability = Mean of the System availabilities of all time-
blocks during the month in which the KSEBL has scheduled power for 
charging the BESS. 
Where, 
System Availability in a time-block= 
 𝐴𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑙 𝑀𝑈𝑖(𝐴)  , 𝑆𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑙𝑒𝑑 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑙 𝑀𝑈𝑖(𝐵) 
where 
a) i refers to the ith time-block in the Month where Scheduled Injection MUi ≠ 0. 
b) Actual Drawl MUi is the Actual Energy for Charging in the i th time-block, in 
MUs 
c) Scheduled Drawl MU i is the Energy Scheduled for Charging in the i th time-
block, in MUs 
d) A and B shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports published by the SLDC or 
measurement at the Main ABT Meter at the Point of Interconnection. 
System Annual availability shall be calculated as per above. The liquidated  
damages for system availability below 95% shall be settled on monthly  
basis and if it is not able to settle in the same/ current month, it will be carried 
forward for settlement in subsequent month(s). 
If the Annual un -availability of 5% is already reached during part of a year, 
the Monthly Capacity Charges will be paid only after deducting the Penalty 
for Availability. 
 
iii. The BESSD shall guarantee a minimum AC to AC roundtrip efficiency (RtE) of 
Page 94 of 101 
 
 
 
85% for the system on monthly basis. The BESSD shall be liable for Liquidated 
Damages to the off -taker, if any, on account of excess conversion losses, based 
on the following conditions: 
(d) For RtE <70%, there shall be a liquidated damage @ APPC tariff of previous 
financial year of the KSEBL, levied upon the excess conversion  losses, 
considering system RtE = 85% and tariff payment for the corresponding month 
shall not be made to the BESSD; 
(e) For 70% ≤ RtE < 85%, there shall be a liquidated damage levied @ APPC 
tariff of previous financial year of KSEBL, levied upon excess conversion 
losses considering system RtE = 85%. 
(f) For RtE > 85%, there shall be incentive @Rs. 0.50 per unit of excess 
discharge of energy considering system RtE = 85% 
System Roundtrip Efficiency = 
= 𝐒𝐮𝐦 𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐨𝐟 𝐀𝐜𝐭𝐮𝐚𝐥 𝐈𝐧𝐣𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧/𝐃𝐢𝐬𝐜𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐌𝐔𝐬𝐣 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐦𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐡 (𝐂)
𝐒𝐮𝐦 𝐓𝐨𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐨𝐟 𝐀𝐜𝐭𝐮𝐚𝐥 𝐃𝐫𝐚𝐰𝐚𝐥/𝐂𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐌𝐔𝐬𝐣 𝐢𝐧 𝐚 𝐦𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐡 (𝐃)  
Where, 
 
j refers to the jth month in a year; 
D ≠ 0; 
D <= 2 x Ebess x (MDn-1 – (MDn-1 – MDn) x j/12) x No of Days in the jth month/ 
RtEg;  
Ebess refers to Energy Rating specified in Clause 8.1.b. above; 
MDn-1 refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the 
previous year (as a % of Capacity at the COD specified in Clause 8.1.e.iv. below); 
MDn refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the current 
year; 
RtEg refers to the guaranteed Round-Trip Efficiency under the BESPA; 
C and D shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports published by the Regional 
RPCs/SLDCs or measurement at the Main ABT Meter at the Point of 
Interconnection. 
For calculation of LD, RtE shall be calculated based on the above formula 
rounded off to three decimal places. 
Note: 
• The Scheduled capacity shall be subject to the System Power Rating 
specified in Clause 8.1.a. above and 8.1.b above. 
• The BESSD shall take separate, metered connection for the Auxiliary Power 
load of BESS 
or 
Page 95 of 101 
 
 
 
The BESSD can draw auxiliary power from Interconnection point. Separate meter 
shall be provided by Developer to measure Auxiliary consumption and that would 
be billed by KSEBL @ Industrial Tariff excluding demand charges, subject to 
approval of Hon’ble KSERC. 
The BESSD shall declare RtE on Day Ahead basis along with Declared Capacity. 
 
3. The nameplate ratings shall be achievable during discharge for the full range of 
environmental conditions at the project site when the battery is fully charged. In any 
case, the BESS shall be capable of being discharged at reduced power levels from 
that specified above. The energy discharged from the battery shall be greater than 
that specified above. 
4. The BESSD is required to meet the Discharge energy commitment subject to Clause 
(4) above. The Discharge Energy Commitment shall be 95 % of the Energy scheduled 
for dispatch on monthly basis. The BESSD shall be liable for Liquidated Damages to 
KSEBL, if any, on account of short fall in supply of committed energy at the Average 
Market Clearing Price (MCP) in peak hour (18:30Hrs -20:30Hrs) in Day Ahead Market 
(DAM) of Power Exchange for corresponding billing month period. 
5. The BESSD shall be eligible for incentive, from completion of one year after CoD of 
entire project capacity @ Rs.1.00 per unit for the excess discharge of energy for the 
quantum discharged by KSEBL in excess of the minimum dispatchable energy taking 
into consideration YoY capacity degradation as 2 %. 
6. SLDC shall, in accordance with Applicable Laws and Regulations thereunder, issue 
instructions to the BESSD on behalf of KSEBL for dispatch of electricity to the Grid 
during such period and in such volume as it may specify in its instructions. The 
BESSD shall clearly specify the maximum recovery times required to restore the 
BESS for functional availability between duty cycles. The maximum allowed cooling 
time between Charge to Discharge or Discharge to charge would be 1 hr. There shall 
be no cooling or recovery time between two sessions during charging or discharging 
operation. 
7. Operational Window: Operational Window shall mean the expected hours/duration of 
system (capacity) availability on each day during the term of the Contract, excluding: 
a. Maximum BESS recovery time as specified in this document 
b. Grid Outages (duly certified to this effect by the Grid Operator) 
c. Planned Maintenance Outage duly informed by  the BESSD to the off -taker 
with at least one month’s prior notice, subject to total no. of planned outage 
period being not more than 34 hours in a two-month period. 
d. The Scheduled maintenance must be carried out during monsoon season, 
subject to prior approval from KSEBL. 
Page 96 of 101 
 
 
 
BESSD will have to comply with the Charging and Discharging Schedule as intimated 
by SLDC.  
8. In addition to above, the BESSD shall also submit Available energy Test Report for 
the Project Capacity as per IEC 62933-2-1 on Annual basis. 
9. It shall be the responsibility of the BESSD to make periodic 
replacements/replenishments of system capacities at its own cost to ensure annual 
guaranteed system ratings , if and when required, up to the Term of the Contract. 
Outage time as a result of replacement will also be counted as an “Accountable BESS 
Outage” for the purpose of computing BESS Availability. 
Page 97 of 101 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1: PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE (PBG) 
(to be attached herewith separately for each Project) 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2: 
 
 
 
Illustration 
 
ILLUSTRATIONS 
(Please refer Article 4.4 of this Agreement) 
1. System Availability 
Under a BSSPA between an off-taker ‘X’ and BESSD ‘Y’ for a capacity ‘C’, the Schedule and 
Actual Injection into/Drawl from the Grid from the Project, as per the DSM/ UI Reports published by 
the SLDC for a Sample day is shown below: 
   
 
 
 
date 
 
 
 
block 
Drawl 
(from Grid) 
MW 
(Charging) 
(X) 
Injection (into 
Grid) MW 
(Discharging) (Y) 
 
Scheduled 
Mus 
(Z) 
Time-block 
Availability, 
(TA) 
=(Xi/Zi)  or 
(Yi/Zi) 
 
01-May-28 1 250 0 250 1 
01-May-28 2 250 0 250 1 
01-May-28 3 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 4 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 5 235 0 250 0.94 
01-May-28 6 235 0 250 0.94 
01-May-28 7 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 8 240 0 250 0.96 
01-May-28 9 0 0 12.5 0 
01-May-28 10 12.5 0 0 0 
01-May-28 11 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 12 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 13 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 14 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 15 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 16 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 17 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 18 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 19 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 20 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 21 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 22 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 23 0 0 0 NA 
Page 98 of 101 
 
 
 
01-May-28 24 0 190 250 0.76 
01-May-28 25 0 190 250 0.76 
01-May-28 26 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 27 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 28 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 29 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 30 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 31 0 200 250 0.8 
01-May-28 32 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 33 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 34 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 35 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 36 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 37 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 38 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 39 0 0 0 NA 
01-May-28 40 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 41 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 42 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 43 12.5 0 12.5 1 
 
01-May-28 44 245 0 250 0.98 
 
01-May-28 45 240 0 250 0.96 
 
01-May-28 46 240 0 250 0.96 
 
01-May-28 47 235 0 250 0.94 
 
01-May-28 48 240 0 250 0.96 
 
01-May-28 49 250 0 250 1 
 
01-May-28 50 250 0 250 1 
 
01-May-28 51 250 0 250 1 
 
01-May-28 52 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 53 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 54 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 55 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 56 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 57 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 58 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 59 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 60 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 61 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 62 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 63 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 64 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 65 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 66 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 67 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 68 0 0 0 NA 
 
Page 99 of 101 
 
 
 
01-May-28 69 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 70 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 71 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 72 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 73 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 74 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 75 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 76 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 77 250 0 250 1 
 
01-May-28 78 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 79 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 80 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 81 0 230 250 0.92 
 
01-May-28 82 0 235 250 0.94 
 
01-May-28 83 0 235 250 0.94 
 
01-May-28 84 0 230 250 0.92 
 
01-May-28 85 0 200 250 0.8 
 
01-May-28 86 0 190 250 0.76 
 
01-May-28 87 0 185 250 0.74 
 
01-May-28 88 0 230 250 0.92 
 
01-May-28 89 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 90 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 91 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 92 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 93 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 94 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 95 0 0 0 NA 
 
01-May-28 96 0 0 0 NA 
 
Total  3905 3295 8025 29.7 
 
  No of Block with Active Charging 20 
 
  SYSTEM AVAIL ABILITY during Charging 
period 
0.87 
 
 
Note: For calculating the System Availability for day/month, schedule provided by 
Procure/SLDC to be considered. Shortfall in System Availability  will be calculated as per 
below methodology. DSM / UI charges shall be treated separately as per applicable 
regulations and paid by BESSD. 
If KSEBL has scheduled for charging of BESS & discharge of BESS and BESSD has not 
charge & discharge the BESS according to schedule then TA will be calculated  as TA= 
(X/Z)+(Y/Z) for that time block. 
If KSEBL has not scheduled for charging of BESS & discharge of BESS and if BESS 
performs charging or discharging then TA will be 0 (zero) for that time block. 
Any discharge/ injection to the grid without scheduling by KSEBL is not allowed and will not 
be considered as discharge/ injection from BESS. 
Page 100 of 101 
 
 
 
i is the ith Time block in the day. 
The System Availability for the day is calculated as the mean of Column TA, for all 
time- blocks where Column Z is not zero. 
Further any drawl/ injection without scheduling will be treated as zero availability. 
From the above table, Day’s System Availability for charging period= 0.87 
Similarly, the System availability shall be calculated for Monthly, 2880 time -blocks (96*30) in a 
Month (31 Days in a month considered in above), excluding time-blocks where Grid is 
unavailable or in case of Force Majeure. 
Assuming the following parameters: 
a. Total Contract Capacity=250 MW,C 
b. Quoted monthly Capacity charges=2 lakhs /MW/month, D 
c. Annual system availability (as per procedure above) is calculated to be 0.87, B 
d. n =12 
 
Liquidated Damages on account of shortage in annual system Availability, as calculated 
from formula provided in Clause 9.2: 
Liquidated damages= (A– B) x C x D x n x 1.5 
=(0.95-0.87) x 250 x 2 x 12 x 1.5 
=720 lakhs  
2. System Round Trip Efficiency 
The present illustration is for calculating the Daily System Efficiency as demonstration  only. 
The same methodology shall be used for calculation of monthly system efficiency as per 
Clause 9.1.d.3. 
System Efficiency = Total of Column(Y) = 3295 =0.8437~0.84 (rounded off to 2 decimal places) 
Total of Column(X) 3905 
Assuming: 
 
a. Monthly System Efficiency = 0.84, 
b. Total Monthly Drawl form Grid(Charging Power) = 41.1MUs 
 
 
Liquidated Damages is calculated @ APPC tariff for excess loss of energy considering 
expected System Efficiency to be 85% 
Excess conversion losses = (0.85-0.84) * Total Drawl from the grid in the month (i.e., 
Charging Energy) 
Liquidated Damages for the month=Rs.0.01 x 41.1 x APPC tariff or e.g. Rs. 3.15) 
= Rs 1.295 Millions 
= Rs 12.95 lakhs 
Page 101 of 101 
 
 
 
c. Discharge Energy Commitment:   
Scheduled Energy for Discharge = (500 x 1000) x 32  = 16 MU 
Minimum Guaranteed Availability = 95 % 
Discharge Energy Commitment = 15.2 MU 
Say if, Short fall during the month = 0.02 MU 
Liquidated Damages for  
Short fall in Supply of Committed Energy = 0.02 x ( AMCP Peak DAM eg.10/-) 
= 0.02 x 10/- 
= 0.2 Million ie Rs. 2 Lakh 
 
SCHEDULE 3: COMMISSIONING PROCEDURE AND INDICATIVE SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM (SLD) 