Invitation for Bids (IFB)                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Invitation for Bids (IFB)                        
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE MATERIALS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Centralized Rate Contract (CRC) for Canon printers cartridges  
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
  
 
Bidding Document No.: NTPC/EOC/9900302129 
1. NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Single Envelope  Bidding Basis for aforesaid 
Package, as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by Bidder from the website 
https://gem.gov.in. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. 
 
3. This NIT is published on Single tender basis.  
4. SCOPE OF WORK 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the Vol-III,Technical 
Specification & SOW of Bidding Document No. As specified above. 
 
5. NTPC intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources. 
 
6. Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the following schedule: 
 
Issuance of IFB As per GEM portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
As per GEM portal 
Bid receipt date & time As per GEM portal 
Date & Time for opening of Bid. As per GEM portal 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL  
            
Bidder is advised to visit the GeM (e-tender) portal of Govt. for updated bidding 
schedule of the Tender.  
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) 
as specified at the tender portal”. 
 
7. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / intending Bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
Invitation for Bids (IFB)                        
 
8. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has 
extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development 
projects. 
 
9. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which may be downloaded from e-Tender website (https://gem.gov.in). 
 
10. Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is 
considered to be qualified. 
 
11. This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted with it are confidential and 
intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. You 
are requested to keep all the information confidential and do not disclose it to any other 
third party, persons or firms. 
 
12. Address for communication: 
 
Dy. General Manager (CM)   
NTPC LTD., 6TH FLOOR, EOC, 
Plot no. A-8A, Sector 24 
NOIDA(UP), India-201 301 
Manager (CM)   
NTPC LTD., 6th FLOOR, EOC, 
Plot no. A-8A, Sector 24, 
NOIDA(UP), India-201 301 
0120- 4946529 0120 – 4946560 
ramgopal01@ntpc.co.in shilpakareddy@ntpc.co.in 


