1 | P a g e  
 
 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A Joint Venture of NTPC Ltd. & SAIL)  
NOTICE INVITING TENDER  
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING)  
NIT No. : SSC -25165/OT/33/2025 -26/2800010173             Corrigendum-03                                                                              
07.10.2025 
 
NSPCL -Bhilai invites tenders for following package  of PP2 Durgapur : Corrigendum -01 (Please refer clarification in C 
folder of Bid)  
Sl. 
No. 
Pkg. 
No. 
Description of Work  Estimated 
Value (Rs)  
Cost of 
Tender 
Document 
(Rs.)  
Contr act 
Period  
Sale Start 
Date / 
Sale Close 
Date 
Last Date 
& Time for 
Receipt of 
Bid EMD(Rs)  
01 
SSC/ 
25165 
WATERPROOFING AND 
STRUCTURAL STRENGTHENING OF 
VARIOUS STRUCTURES INSIDE PP-II 
AT NSPCL, DURGAPUR PP2 
2,72,72,535.40 
2655/- 
(Online 
tender 
form)  
24 
Months  18/10/25 
22/12/25 
15:00Hrs  5,00,000.00 17/12/25 
Tender Documents can be downloaded from SRM Portal:  https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal after 
paying Tender Fee amount of Rs. 2655.00 (Rs.2250.00 + Rs. 405.00 GST@18%).  
Online Tender fee/EMD submission Procedure help document can be accessed at link - “SRM Online TFE & EMD 
Payment Manual” on SRM Portal website: -   https://www.nspcl.co.in/pages/nspcl-srm-portal. 
Abridged NIT along with Qualifying Requirement may be viewed at www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in.  The details of tender 
for e-bidding shall be available at https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal  (RFx/NIT No.: 2800010173). 
Tender document fee/EMD should be submitted online. Tender Fee and EMD can also be paid offline in the form of  
Demand Draft / Pay Order / Banker's Cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payable at Bhilai  
and is to be submitted at following address: 
AGM(SSC-C&M), NSPCL Bhilai –Expansion Site, Near Purena Village, PO -Bhilai (East) Distt. - Durg, C.G. 490021  Tel.: 
0788-2347063.  
Request for Tender Fee Exemption ( if applicable) along with relevant Document (UDYAM CERTIFICATE) should be 
submitted at the following email ids: arti.chore@nspcl.co.in or ushakumai@nspcl.co.in or sudeepk.das@nspcl.co.in so 
that the eligible agency is enabled to download the tender document and participation.  
Instruction for e-bidding:  
1. The bidder must have Digital Signature Certificate (Class -III). 
2. The bidders who already have valid SRM User ID:  
a) Login the SRM Portal and click on RFx and Auction button. 
b) Rfx will be available to view for all the bidders which are already having valid SRM User ID’s.  
c) Interested bidders have to register first against the Bid invitation by clicking on “Register” button placed   into Rfx 
header segment. 
d) Once Registration step & Tender fee submission is done by bidder and the tender fee received by the NSPCL and 
updated into the system then Bidder could be able  to “Create Response” and submit the bids against the Bid 
invitation   into the system.  
3. New Bidders who are not having SAP/ERP Vendor Code and / or SRM User ID:  
a) In case a new bidder wants to participate for a particular Bid invitation in SRM portal , the bidder first of all has to 
submit the filled Registration Form & EFT Form along with required supporting documents e.g. as specified in 
forms, till 16/12/2025 to C&M department, NSPCL Bhilai in hard copy or scanned copy through e -mail at 
arti.choure@nspcl.co.in or ak.sahoo@nspcl@co.in 
b) C&M department will initiate the process for vendor ID creation in SAP & send the bidder’s SRM Credentials 
(User ID along with initial Password) to them. 
c) After creation of SRM Credentials the step 2 (above) shall b e followed by the bidder.  
2 | P a g e  
 
All Corrigendum/Modifications/Updates for the above NITs shall only be published on the aforesaid web sites .  
For any Technical Support, please contact SRM helpdesk at 0788-2282414. 
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work :  WATERPROOFING AND STRUCTURAL STRENGTHENING OF VARIOUS STRUCTURES INSIDE PP -II AT NSPCL, 
DURGAPUR PP2. 
The Bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they fulfil the following qualifying 
Requirements:- 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1 The bidder should have executed waterproofing/pressure grouting/RCC strengthening works of Building or 
Structures as per following criteria within preceding seven (07) years as on the date of Technical bid opening  : 
 
a) Single Contract  of  value not less than Rs. 218.17 Lakhs  
   OR 
b) Two Contract of  value not less than Rs. 136.36  Lakhs each   
   OR 
c) Three Contract of  value not less than Rs.109.08  Lakh each   
 
 Notes : 
a) Values as per clause 1.1 shall be considered exclusive of taxes and dutie s. 
b) The work “executed” mentioned in clause 1.1 means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria 
specified in clause 1.1 with any of the following conditions : 
Case-I :  The work is started earlier (prior to the period stipulated in clause 1.1) but co mpleted within the 
stipulated period as mentioned  in clause 1.1.  In such cases, entire executed quantity of the relevant work 
vide the work order shall be considered for evaluation. 
Case-II: The work is started earlier (prior to t he period stipulated in clause 1.1) but not completed as on the 
last day of stipulated period.  In such cases, “In progress” executed quantity of the relevant work vide that 
work order as on the last date of stipulated period, shall be considered for evaluation.  
Case-III: The wor k is started & completed within the stipulated period as mentioned in clause 1.1. in such 
cases, entire executed value of the relevant work vide that work order shall be considered for evaluation.  
Case-IV:  The work is started within the stipulated period as mentioned clause 1.1  but not completed as on 
the day of stipulated period.  In such cases, “In progress” executed quantity of the relevant work vide that 
work order as on last date of stipulated period, shall be considered for evaluation.  
 Remakrs : 
i)   Bidder must submit requisite credentials in support of having met the qualifying requirement.  A 
summary sheet of the documents need to be submitted along with  the technical offer.  Summary 
sheet should clearly describe the eligibility credentials. Credentials may include: 
1) Purchase order/work order copies. 
2) Work completion certificate against purchase order/work order copies.  
2.0 Financial Criteria 
2.1 
The Average annual turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (03) Financial years as on the date of t echnical 
bid opening, should not be less that Rs.136.36 Lakh ( Indian Rupee One Crore thirty six lakhs and thirty six 
thousand only) exclusive of taxes and duties. 
2.2 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date Technical bid o pening are not available, the 
financials results certified by practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable.  In case bidder is 
not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, th e 
audited results of three consecutive financial years proceeding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters.  Further, a certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO/Proprietor/Partners as per the format enclosed  in the bidding documents stating that the financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Technical bid opening and the Certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying that financial parameters is not available.  
2.3 Other income shall  not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
NIT Conditions 
 
1. Bid documents will be issued to all the parties on their request (cost of tender document to be made by a 
crossed demand draft / pay order / banker's cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
payable at Bhilai ) for issue of bid documents without prima -facie examination of their qualification status. 
However, issue of bid documents shall not mean that bidders are considered qualified. Tender document fee 
3 | P a g e  
 
will not be refunded. Request for tender documents received after the last date as mentioned above due to 
delays postal/courier services shall not be entertained. 
 
2. NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for bids witho ut assigning 
any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
3. Agencies are advised to visit the site to familiarize themselves with the nature of work and the site conditions.  
 
4. If the last date of receiving application and date of bid opening coincide with a holiday, the date will be shifted 
to the next working day. 
 
5. BEING WORKS CONTRACT,MSE BENEFIT IS NOT APPLICABLE. . 
 
6. Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet a nd P&L Account (wherever applicable) 
undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in 
support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI).  
 
7. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his co llaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group companies 
to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the 
Employer. The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but n ot be limited 
to the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of credentials. 
A negative determination of such assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the 
bid.  
 
8. The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered to ascertain the 
bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The Employer at its discretion may seek any 
clarification and/or documentary evidence only  for the reference works as mentioned above. However, no 
change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant for conforming to the specified 
qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”.  
   
9. “Bidders are required to furnis h the details of the past experience like authentic Work Orders/Purchase 
Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, client certificates, completion certificate, etc. in support of 
meeting the Qualifying Requirements based on which selection is to be made  as per format  in 
Attachment -3 FORM FOR QUALIFICATION DETAILS ( mandatory)   . However, if any of the 
Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements pertains to the work executed by 
Bidder for NSPCL /NTPC in the past, then in respect of su ch Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of 
Awards/Contract Agreements, Bidder shall not be required to enclose Client Certificate along with its 
Bid.” 
 
i) All the bidders, who are required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the 
documents, in support of Technical Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work 
Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from 
Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Bidders can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Auditor certifying 
the data required for meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their Statutory 
Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR along with a certificat e regarding 
verification of authenticity of documents as per the format placed at Annexure -II  Undertaking from 
Statutory Auditor) and/ or Annexure-III  Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the  
 bidder in support of meeting Technical QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or 
specified TPIA.  
 
   iii)   In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the verification and 
certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the f ollowing TPIAs:  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
4 | P a g e  
 
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd.  
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18)TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not certified by 
specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the format enclosed with the bidding 
documents, shall not be considered verified/ ce rtified for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be 
liable for rejection. 
 
(iv)   The Bidder shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials in support of Qualifying 
Requirements verified & certified by their Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or s pecified TPIAs. All the costs 
pertaining to third party verification and certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be 
borne by the Bidder. Employer shall have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and 
shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor.  
 
10.     NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out 
of such action. 
 
Address for communication:  
AGM (SSC-C&M) 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED,  
Post Office: BHILAI (East), Distt. : Durg (CHHATTISGARH), Pin: 490 021  
 : 0788–2282446, 2347063 
Email: ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in  /  arti.choure@nspcl.co.in 
 
 