 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)  

 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
Consultancy Package for Detailed Feasibility Study (FSR/FR) for 
Augmentation of Railway siding Infrastructure & Systems including Over Head 
Electrification and S&T for Bongaigaon STPP Stage-II (1x800 MW). 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.:    
 
Bidding Document No.: CS-4632-350-9 
1. NTPC invites online bids on GeM portal on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding 
Basis for aforesaid Package, as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested 
Bidder from the website https://gem.gov.in. The tender is invited under e -tendering 
process. 
 
3. Bids of only those Bidders/Consultants/Firms shall be accepted who are 
approved by Northeast Frontier Central Railways (NFR) to undertake the 
work of preparation of feasibility report of Railway Siding works as on last 
date of submission of bid Further, bidders/consultants shall ensure that their 
registration with NFR shall be valid till the completion of consultancy 
assignment and as per terms & conditions of registration with NFR. 
Participating Bidder/Consultants/firms shall submit documentary evidence along 
with their Bid to establish the above condition. 
 
4. SCOPE OF WORK 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the Vol-II,TOR of 
Bidding Document No. CS-4632-350-9. 
 
5. NTPC intends to finance the subject package through a mix of debt and equity. 
 
6. Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the following schedule: 
 
Issuance of IFB 17.10.2025 
last date for submission of queries 27.10.2025 
Bid (both Techno -Commercial and 
Price) receipt date & time 
10.11.2025 up to 1500 Hrs. (IST) 
 
Date & Time for opening of Techno – 
Commercial bid 
10.11.2025 at 1530 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Price bid Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
               
7. Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) registered with Udyam Registration Portal as 
per MSMED Act 2006 for goods produced and services shall be eligible for MSE 
benefits. 
 
Applicable relevant MSME Certificate should be submitted online/offline before 
schedule bid submission end date & time. 
 
It is advised that all the Prospective Bidders shall register and obtain Udyam 
Registration Certificate. It may be noted that w.e.f. 1st April 2022, Udyam 
Registration Certificate shall be only valid Certificate to avail the benefits as per 
Public Procurement Policy. 
 
MSEs seeking exemption and benefits should enclose an attested/self -certified 
copy of registration certificate as a part of his bid, giving details such as 
stores/services, validity (if applicable) etc. failing which they run the risk of their 
bid being passed over as ineligible for the benefits applicable to MSEs. 
 
8. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation 
for Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / 
intending Bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9. 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders 
may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids." 
 
10. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged 
in development projects. 
 
11. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in 
the Bidding Documents, which  may be downloaded from e-Tender website 
(https://gem.gov.in/).  
12. Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe that such Bidder 
is considered to be qualified. 
 
13. This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted with it are confidential 
 
and intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are  
addressed. You are requested to keep all the information confidential and do not 
disclose it to any other third party, persons or firms. 
 
14. Address for communication: 
 
Priyanka Kumari/ Sh. Bikram Mandal,  
Sr. Manager (CS)/AGM(CS) 
           NTPC Limited 
           Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
 e-mail: priyanka@ntpc.co.in, bmandal@ntpc.co.in   
 Tel No. 01204946545/ 01204946522 