 
 
 
19.10.2025 
 

Page 1 of 103 
 
   Procurement of High-pressure Hydro Jet Pump along with accessories for MSTPP, BIFPCL  
    Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited 
(A Joint Venture of Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), Bangladesh 
and NTPC Ltd., India) 
 
(International Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TENDER DOCUMENT  
FOR THE PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND RELATED SERVICES  
 
INVITATION FOR BID (IFB) 
(Section- IA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IFB Ref No: BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/070                  
 
 
October 19, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Package:  Procurement of High-Pressure Hydro Jet Pump for Condenser 
 Tube cleaning along with accessories for 2X660MW MSTPP, BIFPCL . 
Page 2 of 103 
 
   Procurement of High-pressure Hydro Jet Pump along with accessories for MSTPP, BIFPCL  
 
 
   
        INVITATION FOR BID 
(SECTION-IA) 
 
        IFB Ref No: BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/070                                Date: 19.10.2025 
 
 
1.0 Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited (“ BIFPCL”), acting as the 
Employer, invites sealed bid from eligible bidders for ‘ Procurement of High- pressure 
Hydro Jet Pump for Condenser Tube cleaning along with accessories for 2X660MW 
MSTPP, BIFPCL for Maitree Super Thermal Power Project (“2x660 MW Maitree STPP” 
or “MSTPP”) (the “Project”) at Rampal, following Single Stage Two Envelope bidding 
procedure (Envelope-1: Technical Proposal and Envelope-2: Financial Proposal), as per 
the Scope of Work mentioned in brief hereinafter. 
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
 The Contractor shall supply materials against the subject package as per the ‘Schedule 
of Requirement’, considering the parameters/ conditions stipulated in the Bidding 
Documents, to Port of Destination in Bangladesh on a single point responsibility basis 
but not limited to arranging and ensuring Manufacturing, testing, packing, loading,  
transportation & unloading at the Port of Destination in Bangladesh. All other related 
activities, including necessary license for transportation (if applicable), coordination with 
statutory authorities, shall also be part of Scope of Work of the Successful Bidder. Bidder 
is requested to go through the complete specification for the detailed scope of work, which 
is described in this Section of the Bidding Document, towards ensuring smooth and 
trouble-free operation of all activities in supply chain required for ensuring materi al 
delivery at site. 
 The detailed Scope of Work is provided in the Technical Specification ( Section-7) of the 
Bidding Document. Bidder shall consider the Bidding Document in its entirety for complete 
understanding and interpretation of the Scope of Work and Services and shall submit a 
Proposal that meets the complete requirement of the Bidding Document. 
 
3.0 The Bidding Document is available for purchase from the address mentioned below. The 
bidding process schedule is indicated below: 
 
Bidding Document No. BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/070; 
Bidding Document Sale Date and 
Time 
19.10.2025 (10:00 Hrs. BST) to  
27.11.2025 (17:00 Hrs. BST) 
Last Date for submission of pre-
bid Query 
15.11.2025 (11:00 Hrs. BST) 
Pre-Bid Meeting  N/A  
Bid (Envelope-1 & Envelope-2) 
Receipt Date & Time                 
Up to 01.12.2025 till 11:00 Hrs. (BST) 
Envelope-1 (Technical) Proposal 
Opening Date & Time                  
On 01.12.2025 at 12:00 Hrs.(BST) 
Page 3 of 103 
 
   Procurement of High-pressure Hydro Jet Pump along with accessories for MSTPP, BIFPCL  
Date of Opening of Envelope-2 (Financial) Proposal shall be intimated 
separately after Evaluation of Envelope-1 (Technical) Proposals. 
 
 Prospective bidders may please note that this is an indicative bidding process schedule 
and may be amended or modified by BIFPCL If required.  
 
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of USD 1,500.00 (USD 
One Thousand Five Hundred) / BDT 1,83,000.00 (BDT One Lakh Eighty-three 
Thousand Taka) Only, strictly in the format as prescribed in ITB Clause #31, 32 & 33 
and corresponding TDS clauses. 
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY SHALL BE 
REJECTED BY BIFPCL AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. 
 
5.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidder 
5.1 Technical Criteria:  
5.1.1 The bidder must be a Manufacturer or Manufacturer’s Authorized Representative who 
has experience in manufacturing/supplying High- pressure Hydro jet pumps and must 
have individually executed manufacturing/supply of High- pressure Hydro jet pumps to 
any Govt./Semi Govt./Private Firm/Industry as on the date of techno- commercial bid 
opening, in a single contract or cumulatively in maximum three (03) contracts in last three 
(03) years. Years need to be counted backward from the date of issuance of NIT of value 
quantity not less than BDT 89 lacs/USD 72950. 
                           OR 
5.1.2 The bidder must be a registered importer must have individually executed import/supply 
of goods to any Govt./Semi Govt./Private Firm/Industry as on the date of techno-
commercial bid opening,  in a single contract or cumulatively in maximum three (03) 
contracts in last three (03) years. Years need to be counted backward from the date of 
issuance of NIT of value quantity not less than BDT 177 lacs/USD 145081. 
 
 
  
Note to Clause 5.1 (Technical Criteria):  
 
1. In support of and in order to establish the aforesaid experience as per Clause No. 1.1, 
the bidder must submit any one document or all documents or any document as 
applicable:  
 
i. Proof of being a manufacturer, e.g. Factory License/ Business registration / Consent to 
Operate from pollution control Board/ or any other valid document as proof of 
manufacturing of High-pressure Hydro jet pumps. 
 
ii. For Manufacturer’s Authorized representative tender specific authorization from the 
Manufacturer shall be required. 
 
iii. For registered importer, the Bidder shall have to submit import registration documents. 
 
Page 4 of 103 
 
   Procurement of High-pressure Hydro Jet Pump along with accessories for MSTPP, BIFPCL  
2.  In support of and in order to establish the aforesaid experience as per Clause No. 1.1/1.2, 
the bidder must submit any one document or all documents or any document as 
applicable: 
a) Completion Certificate or  
b) Work order copy/PO Copy 
 
3. The work executed shall mean that the Bidder should have achieved the progress 
specified in QR Clause 1.1/1.2 above, even if the total contract is not completed/closed 
and the same shall be supported by documentary evidence.  
 
5.2 Financial Criteria 
 
           Tenderer shall have the following minimum level of financial capacity to qualify for the 
performance of the Supply/Services under the Tender. 
 
5.2.1  The Average Annual Turnover (AAT) of the Bidder, in the immediately preceding three 
financial years ending on 30.06.2024 should not be less than BDT 89 lakh / USD 72950.  
 
Note to Clause 5.2.1 (Financial Criteria): 
 
In support of and in order to  establish the AAT as per Clause 2.1, the bidder shall submit 
the audited copy of ‘Annual Financial Report/ Balance Sheet/Profit & Loss Statement’ of 
relevant financial years as per Cl.# 5.2.1.  
a) In cases where audited financial results for the immediately preceding financial years are 
not available, certification of the financial statements from a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall also be considered acceptable. In case, the bidder is not able to submit 
the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial results of the 
immediately preceding financial year, the audited financial results of preceding three 
consecutive financial years may be submitted and the same shall be  considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial 
results of the Company for immediately preceding Financial years are under audit and the 
Certificate would be required from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available. Bidder must also submit the copy of income tax return 
for the relevant years. 
 
b) Other income of bidder shall not be considered for arriving at the annual turnover.  
 
5.3 Further certified photocopies of latest documents related to valid National Identification 
Card (NID), Updated Trade License, Tax Identification Number (TIN), Latest income 
Tax Return Certificate/Acknowledgement slip, BIN/VAT Registration Certificate, and 
other documents needed to be disclosed by vendor or to be 
obtained/maintained/complied as per law of GOB from the prospective bidders. 
           
5.4  General Notes for Qualifying Requirements:        
Page 5 of 103 
 
   Procurement of High-pressure Hydro Jet Pump along with accessories for MSTPP, BIFPCL  
i. All relevant certificates/ authenticated documents in support of the Qualifying 
Requirements shall have to be submitted by the bidder along with its bid. All the certificates 
must be authenticated by the authorized signatory of the bidder. Without such certificates 
/ authenticated document or where the certificate / authenticated document is found to be 
unsatisfactory by BIFPCL, the Bid may be considered as non-responsive. 
ii. In case the end user(s) does not issue certificate to the bidder, but issues the certificate 
directly only to BIFPCL based on a request by the bidder, such certificate shall also be 
considered as part and parcel of the bidder’s submission, provided the bidder submits 
copy of such request letter (duly authenticated as above) along with its Technical Proposal. 
iii. BIFPCL reserves the right to reject the Bid of the bidder(s) and forfeit the Bid Security, 
where any certificate or document submitted or representation made in support of the 
Qualifying Requirements is found to be false/untrue or fake. 
 
6.0 Notwithstanding any other provision of the Bidding Document, BIFPCL reserves the right to 
reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw / modify the Invitation for Bid without assigning any 
reason whatsoever and in such case, no bidder/ prospective bidder shall have any claim 
arising out of such action. 
 
7.0 The Bidding Document may be download from www.bifpcl.com, the website of BIFPCL. 
Prospective bidders are advised to keep visiting the website www.bifpcl.com for any 
amendment(s)/ clarification(s)/errata to the Bidding Document or any other information 
related to this Invitation for Bid, which shall be posted on the website. 
 
8.1 Issuance of Bidding Document to any bidder shall not construe to mean that such a bidder 
is considered to be qualified.  
 
8.2 The transfer or sharing of the Bidding Document purchased or downloaded by one 
intending bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
8.3 A bidder shall only submit one Bid. A firm can participate only as on individual basis. No 
joint venture or consortium is allowed to participate in this tender. 
 
9.0 Bids in 2(two) different password protected pdf files (Technical bid and financial bid 
separately) with two distinct passwords for each file should be sent to the e- mail ID: 
cpo@bifpcl.com/kvmohan@bifpcl.com or in a sealed envelope only shall be submitted to 
the Tender Box kept at Dhaka office only  and opened at the address given below in the 
presence of bidders’ representatives, who so choose to attend. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 103 
 
   Procurement of High-pressure Hydro Jet Pump along with accessories for MSTPP, BIFPCL  
10.0 Address for communication: 
  
  
Chief Procurement Officer,  
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Limited,  
Level-17, Borak Unique Heights,  
117, Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue,  
Eskaton Garden, Dhaka-1000, 
Mob. No.: +8801713559780/+8801713559792 
Tel. No.: +880258314264; 
E-mail:cpo@bifpcl.com / kvmohan@bifpcl.com/ abir@bifpcl.com 
Website: www.bifpcl.com 
 
BANGLADESH-INDIA FRIENDSHIP POWER COMPANY (PVT.) LIMITED  
(A Joint Venture of BPDB, Bangladesh and NTPC Limited, India) 
Unique Heights (Borak), Level-17, 117 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue, Eskaton 
Garden, Dhaka-1000, Bangladesh. 
INVITATION FOR BID 
OPEN TENDER ENQUIRY (International Competitive Bidding) 
                             Date: 19/10/2025 
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company (Pvt.) Ltd. (BIFPCL) invites bids from eligible bidders 
in Single Stage Two Envelopes (Envelope-1: Technical Proposal and Envelope-2: Financial 
Proposal) for the following package and details: 
 
IFB No BIFPCL/MM/2025-26/OTE/070                                      
Name of Package Procurement of High-Pressure Hydro Jet Pump 
for Condenser Tube cleaning along with 
accessories for 2X660MW MSTPP, BIFPCL . 
Tender Fee N/A 
Tender Security USD 1,500.00 (USD One Thousand Five Hundred) 
/ BDT 1,83,000.00 (BDT One Lakh Eighty-three 
Thousand Taka) Only 
Tender document Sale Period: From 19.10.2025 (10:00 Hrs. (BST) to 27.11.2025 
(17:00 Hrs. (BST)) 
Bid (Envelope-1 & Envelope-2) 
Receipt Date & Time                 
Up to 01.12.2025 till 11:00 Hrs. (BST) 
Envelope-1 (Technical) Proposal 
Opening Date & Time                  
On 01.12.2025  at 12:00 Hrs. (BST) 
 
 
For Qualifying Requirements (QR), Scope of Work, availability of Bidding Documents and other details, please 
refer to detailed “Invitation for Bid” available at www.bifpcl.com or may contact the office of the u ndersigned. 
The bidders may submit propo sals for individual packages subject to compliance with QR with other terms & 
conditions.  For all other details, may please visit the website: www.bifpcl.com. 
.  
(Mr. S.M. Zahid Hasan) 
Chief Procurement Officer (CPO), BIFPCL 
           Unique Heights (Borak), Level-17, 117 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue, Eskaton Garden, Dhaka-1000 
Tel. No.:+8802-58314264; 
E-mail: cpo@bifpcl.com; kvmohan@bifpcl.com 
 
 