NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Hydrated Lime 
 
A)  MEG DETAILS    
  1.0  MEG NO.  10MEC‐15 
  2.0  MEG DESCRIPTION  Hydrated Lime 
  3.0  RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE  SR 
B)  Technical Criteria of QR:  
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of Hydrated Lime. 
2. The applicant should have supplied Hydrated Lime as per IS-1540 part II. 
 
 
C)  Other Documents to be submitted: In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants 
applying for enlistment:‐ 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the date of 
application. Copy of  Invoice / Completion  certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then 
certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof 
of being manufacturer of the required material. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
D)  NOTE‐1  Similar works means: Supply of hydrated lime as per IS‐1540. 
  NOTE‐2  The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against the 
reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Where PO value is 
composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item‐wise break‐up of Composite PO 
value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Hydrated Lime 
 
 
A)  MEG DETAILS    
  1.0  MEG NO.  10MEC‐15 
  2.0  MEG DESCRIPTION  Hydrated Lime 
  3.0  RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE  SR 
B)  Technical Specifications:  
 
1. GENERAL  
The powdered material shall be su bstantially free from ash, dirt, and other materials. The 
material shall be packed in new polyethylene - lined HDPE bags of 25 /50 kgs as per site 
requirement.  
Unit Measure : MT 
 
2. REQUIREMENT 
S.No.  Characteristics  Unit  Requirement  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9.  
Available lime [as Ca(OH)2], Min  
Moisture  
Acid insoluble matter (as SiO2), Max 
Iron (as Fe2O3), Max  
Alumina (as Al2O3), Max  
Magnesia (as MgO), Max  
Dead burnt lime (as CaO), Max  
Carbon dioxide (as CO2)  
Manganese (as Mn2O3), Max  
% by mass  
% by mass  
% by mass  
% by mass  
% by mass  
% by mass  
% by mass  
% by mass  
% by mass  
80 
1.0 
2.0 
0.3  
0.3  
1.0  
3.0  
3.5  
0.03  
• Minimum  95 %  Material shall pass through 75 micron mesh . 
 
3. Quality Plan:  
Acceptance of material based on Inspection and testing at NTPC station site for available lime 
as Ca(OH) 2 and Acid insoluble matter before unloading and for other parameters 
manufacturers / Govt. laboratory test certificate along with consignment.    
 
4. END USE  
Water Treatment Plant and Chemical Cleaning. 
 
 