NTPC LTD  
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirements for Vendor Enlistment for supply of CONVEYOR BELT (NN / EP) up to 
1400 mm width. 
 
A) MEG Details   
 1.0 MEG NO. 55MEG-18 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION CONVEYOR BELT (NN/ EP) up to 1400 mm width 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The applicant should be manufacturer of NN/EP Conveyor Belt of width 1400 mm or higher 
& strength 800 kN/Mtr  and above. The applicant should have supplied NN/EP conveyor 
belt of width 1400 mm or higher and strength 800 kN/Mtr and above, to actual user(s) or 
to main contractors of bulk material handling plant package having conveyors. 
2. The applicant should have Conveyor production unit with following facilities: 
 
I. The production unit should have “a closed chamber internal mixer (Excluding 
kneaders) in operating condition” at his own manufacturing unit with the 
following features and functionalities:  
• With an absolute volume of minimum 65 Litres. 
• With auto timer to indicate set time and elapsed time. 
• With auto temperature control with Cycle temperature chart showing set 
temperature and actual. 
• Input energy indicator for mixing 
• Ram pressure controller and indicator. 
II. The Production unit should have three roll or above calendaring machine, to draw 
cover rubber in a single sheet. 
III. The production unit should have mechanised stretching facility for pre‐tensioning 
of fabric plies during belt building. 
IV. The production unit should have a transparent standard practice of traceability of 
product (belt) with raw materials. 
V. The production unit should have a standard practice of rheological tests. 
VI. The production unit should have a separate internal Quality Assurance (QA) wing 
with Rubber Technologist. The Rubber Technologist should meet the following 
criteria. 
 
BE/BTech/MTech/PhD, in “Rubber Technology / Polymer Science & Rubber 
technology / Polymer Science & technology / Polymer Science & Engineering / 
Polymer Technology” with minimum 5 years of *experience in Conveyor belt 
industry / tyre Industry / Transmission belt industry. 
OR 
M.Sc, in Polymer science / Polymer Chemistry / Chemistry with specialization in 
organic chemistry / Industrial polymer chemistry with minimum 10 years of 
*experience in Conveyor belt industry / tyre industry / Transmission belt industry. 
A certificate course in “Rubber Technology” from a reputed institute such as IIT 
(Kharagpur), IRMRA or Rubber Research Institute of India (RRII, Kottayam, Kerala) 
or any internationally certified courses in Rubber technology conducted by 
institutes like ARDL, LRCCP, UNESCO and Smithers is preferable. 
OR 
B.Sc, in Chemistry with minimum 15 years of *experience in Conveyor belt industry / Tyre Industry 
/ Transmission belt industry. A certificate course in “Rubber Technology” from a reputed institute 
such as IIT (Kharagpur), IRMRA or Rubber Research Institute of INDIA (RRII, Kottayam, Kerala) or 
any internationally certified courses in Rubber technology conducted by inst itutes like ARDL, 
LRCCP, UNESCO and Smithers is preferable. 
 
3. The production unit should have following testing/measurement facilities: 
a. Drum Friction Test Arrangement as per CAN/CSA 
b. Abrasion Resistance Test apparatus & Standard Rubber Sample for cover  rubber 
as per DIN:53516 
c. Arrangement for Flame Test as per ISO 340 
d. Arrangement for Electrical Surface Resistance Test as per CAN/CSA 
e. Troughability measuring arrangement with Measuring Instruments 
f. Humidity & Temperature Controlled testing room /  chamber for samples 
conditioning. 
g. Rheological Test Instrument 
h. Tensile Strength for belt & cover as per IS: 1891 
i. Angular Tear Strength Test for cover as per ASTM D624 Type C 
j. Oven for ageing Test 
 
* As proof of Industry exposure, ‘Experience Certificate’, ‘Appointment Letter & Relieving Letter’, 
‘Salary Slips’, Form 16’, etc. can be the credentials. The experience certificate issued by any 
industry as mentioned above is acceptable. 
C) Other Documents to be uploaded: 
 In addition to the documents upload required in support of Qualifying Requirements as stated at 
B) above, following documents are required to be uploaded by the Applicants applying for 
enlistment:- 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values (Refer to Note-2 of D) below) of similar works (Refer 
to Note -1 of D) below)  during last five years from the date of application. Copy of Invoice / 
Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply 
against the POs. 
2. Audited balance sheet including P rofit & Loss statement for the previous three completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application.  
In case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification of financial 
statements from a practicing chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able 
to submit the certificate from practicing chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, 
the audited results of the three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial years shall 
be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as on date of application and 
certificate from the practicing chartered certifying the financial parameters are not available.  
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificat e 
/ Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document 
as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material. 
 
D) Note-1 Similar works means: Supply of CONVEYOR BELT (NN/EP) of minimum width 1400 
mm within last 5 years from the date of application for enlistment. 
 Note-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works 
executed/supplied against the reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs 
as on date of application).Where PO value is composite(i.e. including Taxes 
etc.),the applicant to give item -wise break-up of Composite PO value men tioning 
Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
 
 
 










