NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS   
1 CEG No  BMD -03 
2 Brief description of CEG  Thermal Insulation & Cladding of Boiler / TG & Auxiliaries  
3 Responsibility Centre  WRHQ -II 
4 Brief scope of work  1. Installation of required scaffolding, platforms and approaches 
including safety arrangement for execution of the insulation work at 
height. 
2. Removal / Installation of insulation wool of req uired thickness / 
Cladding sheet etc.   
3. Lagging (Fixing of insulation wool), Fixing of o ld/New GI/ Al 
cladding sheet in Duct/Piping/ Auxiliary equipments  of Boiler, TG 
and Auxiliaries with suitable/ standard fixing methods.  
4. Proper disposal of scrap materials. 
5. All the required tools and tackles are to be arr anged by the 
contractor. 
6. Other details of works shall be given in subsequ ent tender 
document. 
5 Technical  Qualifying 
Requirements 
The Applicant should have executed the work of Clad ding and 
Lagging of thermal insulation in a Thermal Power Pl ant of 60MW or 
above capacity units during the last five years as on the date of 
application. 
Document to be submitted 
by Vendor in support of 
meeting QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
 
CEG No. BMD -03  
6 Additional Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of  meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following d ocuments are 
required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values o f similar 
work during previous five years from the date of application and 
Copy of   Completion Certificate /RA Bill/ final de viation 
statement from the concerned client in support of e xecution of 
jobs against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss state ment for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date 
of application. In case the audited documents are n ot ready / 
available, then certified copy by a registered prac ticing 
Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate, if applicable  
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
7 Notes  1. Similar work  means, execution of the work of cladding and 
lagging of thermal insulation in a thermal power plant of 60 MW 
or above capacity units during the last five years from the date 
of application.  
2. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite 
(i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-
up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any 
separate re-imbursement/ escalation shall also not be 
considered .  
 
 
 
 
 
 