(Page 1 of 6) 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
 
Enlistment of vendors for Dredging/ De-silting work 
VEC, RAIPUR 
 
1 
 
CEG No. 
 
ADW-04 
 
2 
 
Brief description of 
CEG 
 
Qualifying requirements for Enlistment of vendors for Dredging/ De- 
silting work by dredger. 
 
3 
 
Responsibility Centre 
 
VEC 
 
4 
 
Enlistment Category 
 
Category 1 (from Rs. 20 lakhs upto Rs. 4.0 crs) 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
Brief scope of work 
 
1. Dredging /De -silting of “overflow lagoon/intake well area/ intake 
channel/ River stretch near Intake well/ Pump House” by dredger. 
 
2. Disposal of the dredged material at identified location / locations near 
lagoon or any other suitable area within the lead and lift as specified. 
 
Note: The above scope of work is indicative only and the exact scope of 
works would be projects/ station/ site specific and shall be given in Tender 
documents 
(Page 2 of 6) 
 
 
6.  
Technical Qualifying 
 
 
A. Technical Criteria 
 
The applicant should have executed the work(s) of “Dredging/de -silting 
with dredger in water body like Reservoir/ Dam/ Canal/ Water ways/ 
Lagoons/ River/ Seashore/ Ports/ Dock yard/ naval base (or any 
combination of above)” during last five (05) years as on last date of 
submission of application. 
 
Notes for Clause A above for Qualifying Requirements: 
 
I. Reference work executed by an applicant as a sub -contract may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly 
certified by Project Authority/ owner specifying the scope of work 
executed by the sub-contractor in support of Qualifying Requirements. 
 
II. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the applicant should 
have achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is 
started earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor in 
support of meeting QR 
 
Relevant PO/Work Order copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA 
Bill/Final Deviation Statement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Documents 
to be submitted 
 
Other Documents to be submitted: 
 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment- 
 
i. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work 
during previous five years from the last date of submission of application 
and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement 
from the concerned client in support of successful execution of work 
against each of the POs to be submitted. 
 
ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date of 
application. In case the audited results for the preceding financial year is 
not available, certification of financial statements from a practicing - 
chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to 
submit the certificate from practicing chartered accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results of the three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial years shall be considered for e valuating 
the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as on date of 
application and certificate from the practicing chartered certifying the 
financial parameters are not available. 
iii. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF & GST/Service Tax 
(Page 3 of 6) 
 
 
   
registration certificate. 
 
iv. PAN, PF and GST registration certificates 
 
v. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to submit to get enlisted. 
 
vi. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during evaluation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Execution Capability 
Criteria for Enlistment 
 
The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and Average 
Annual Turnover (AATO) of Enlisted Vendors shall be Rs.20,00,000 (Rs. 
Twenty Lakh). 
 
If any applicant does not submit the required documents so that their 
Execution Capability/ AATO exceeds Rs.20,00,000 (Rs. Twenty Lakh), 
such applicants shall not be considered for enlistment even if they meet the 
qualifying Requirement (QR) of subject Enlistment. 
 
Execution Capability of the vendor to execute similar work shall be 
calculated based on the values of three POs of highest execution value 
submitted by vendor as defined in the following table with an example: 
 
Capability of 
execution of similar PO-1 PO-2 PO-3 work as per PO 
values 
PO values 70 60 55 
 
 
Execution 70x1.25=87.5 60x2=120 55x2.5=137.5 
Capability as per (E.C. up to (E.C. up to 120 (E.C. up to 137.5 
One/two/three POs  87.5 L)  L)  L) 
 
137.5 L (Highest of 87.5, 120 and 137.5) 
Execution Vendor is capable to execute work up to cost 
capability of the estimate 137.5 L 
 vendor to execute 
similar work i.e. eligibility limit for enlistment up to cost estimate 
137.5 L 
 
9 
 
NOTES: 
 
1.0 Similar work means: The work(s) of “Dredging/de-silting with 
dredger in water body like Reservoir/ Dam/ Canal/ Water ways/ 
(Page 4 of 6) 
 
 
   
Lagoons/ River/ Seashore/ Ports/ Dock yard/ naval base (or any 
combination of above)”, read in conjunction with Notes mentioned under 
technical QR. 
 
2.0 In case, reference work order(s) submitted by the applicant for 
execution capability includes “Disposal of the dredged material”, the same 
shall also be considered for arriving execution capability. 
 
3.0 Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
 
4.0 Executed Value means basic value (excluding taxes) of the P.O. 
pertaining to executed similar work. Where P.O. value is composite, the 
applicant should have to give break -up of Composite PO value mentioning 
Basic Value, taxes etc. 
 
5.0 In case the PO includes portion of similar work, then the work executed 
with respect to Similar work only will be considered for arriving executed 
value. 
 
6.0 For the PO/WO which were awarded prior to preceding 5 years from 
the last date of submission of application, the value of work executed in  
the preceding 5 years from the last date of submission of application will 
be considered. 
 
7.0 In case of contract(s) under execution as on the last date of submission 
of application, the value of executed work duly certified by applicant’s 
client, till such date will be considered for arriving executed value. 
 
10  
Plants covered under 
the enlistment 
 
 
PAN NTPC 
 