 
NTPC LTD 
VDC, RAIPUR 
1 CEG No. BMD-29 
2 Brief description 
of CEG 
Enlistment for Maintenance/Overhauling Contract of Boiler Pressure  
Parts, Coal Compartment assembly and associated works including HP 
jet cleaning of Boiler Heating surfaces and Safety Valve Floating. 
3 Responsibility 
Centre 
VDC 
4 Enlistment category  Category-I 
5 Brief scope of work Boiler Pressure Parts – Maintenance: 
 
1. Boiler tube leakage attending as per IBR regulations including all 
accessories & related works like sky climber and scaffolding 
installation, coil removal, cutting of tube by grinder, capping of tube 
etc. in boiler 1st & 2nd pass, and restoration as per original. 
2. Weld joint stress relieving, radiography etc. 
3. Boiler tube shielding, fin welding, refractory application, 
insulation work. 
4. Overhauling/Servicing/Repairing/replacement/Preventive 
maintenance of manual/ motorized/pneumatic globe/gate/control 
valves including all types of safety valves. 
5. Maintenance/replacement of hangers and supports. 
6. Preventive maintenance/Overhauling/ Break-down maintenance 
of Water wall soot blowers/LRSB/ HRSB etc. 
7. Preventive Maintenance/Servicing/ Break-down maintenance of 
Fuel firing system including oil guns, filters, SADC, burner tilt etc. 
8. Overhauling/servicing/load testing of Hoists/lifting tools/sky 
climber. 
9. Fabrication and painting of structures/platforms/approaches as 
per requirement. 
10. Servicing and maintenance of small pumps/ blowers and 
accessories of Boiler area including Fuel oil system. 
11. Any type of fabrication and LP welding related to the work 
package. 
12. Vendor must take proper safety precaution. 
13. All necessary tools and tackles, ensuring work quality, required 
for the above work, are to be arranged by the contractor. 
14. Deployment of experienced supervisor to ensure quality of 
work. 
15. Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be 
given in Tender documents. 
 
 
 
 
 
Boiler Pressure Parts - Overhauling: 
 
16. Erection/dismantling of Quick Erect Scaffolding 
(MS/Aluminum) in Boiler 1st Pass and intermediate pass including 
all related works. 
17. Erection/Dismantling/Shifting of conventional scaffolding in 1st 
pass, 2nd pass, dead chambers etc. inside boiler and outside boiler. 
18. Boiler 1st Pass, 2nd Pass and other working areas illumination 
with suitable light fittings. 
19. All preparatory and support services for boiler/Tubes tube NDT 
works like thickness, hardness, Oxide-layer, MPI, DPT, AET, 
Borescope, Corrosion Mapping etc. 
20. Boiler tubes and bends replacement/weld joints in any area of 
the boiler having tube material like CS, T11, T22, T23, T91, T92, 
SS etc. by engaging expert Pressure Parts repair group including 
IBR welders, cutting of tube by grinder, capping of tube and 
restoration as per original. 
21. ECO/LTSH/DIV/LTRH/PLATEN/ FSH etc. coil 
removal/installation, alignment, restoration of tube 
clamps/connectors etc. as per original. 
22. Radiography of weld joints and rectification of defective joints. 
23. Removal and application of castable, pourable & plastic 
refractory. 
24. Any type of fabrication and LP welding works. 
25. Fabrication of tube bends, clamps, lugs, binders, fins, screen, 
bars etc. 
26. Stress relieving of high-pressure pipes and tubes of T11, T22, 
T23, T91, T92 material etc. 
27. Installation of protection shields, cassette baffles, wire mesh, 
baffle plates, fin bars etc. at different location of boiler Pressure 
Parts. 
28. Vendor must take proper safety precaution. 
29. All necessary tools and tackles, ensuring work quality, required 
for the above work, are to be arranged by the contractor. 
30. Deployment of experienced supervisor to ensure quality of 
work. 
31. Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be 
given in Tender documents. 
 
 
COAL/OIL BURNERS: 
 
1. Removal/ Repair/ Replacement of all coal compartment 
Assembly (Coal burners tips/body/bends, air nozzles tip, Oil guns 
and oil burner diffusers) of one boiler this includes all its associated 
auxiliaries. 
2. Locking of all coal pipes/ removal of PF bends and burner 
isolating gates. Removal of oil guns and scanner mountings. 
3. Bringing new/reclaimed coal nozzles from stacked location and 
replacement as per condition.  
4. Servicing/ Restoration of oil guns and scanner mountings.  
5. Servicing, Repair and making smooth operation of burner 
isolating gate valves/ Burner tilt. 
6. Replacing of burner panel Top & Bottom refractory retaining 
plates.   
7. After replacement, alignment of Coal burner assembly, “0” 
setting and +/- 30º free movement is required, to be done.  
8. Removal, repair, and replacement of oil /air tip 
9. Reclamation of worn-out coal nozzle assemblies for replacement 
during Unit O/H or S/D by patching/new SS plates/ Hard-facing of 
coal nozzle tips, baffle plates, nozzle body etc.  
10. Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be 
given in Tender documents. 
 
 
HP Jet cleaning of Boiler passes: 
 
1. Cleaning of Boiler internal /heat transfer surfaces with high 
pressure water jet during overhauling. 
2. The scope of work includes to and fro transportation of sufficient 
numbers (as mentioned in enquiry) of H.P.  jet pumps with 
accessories from vendor’s site to respective boilers.   
3. Party shall have to mobilize the pumps well in advance from the 
commencement of work (as intimated by NTPC).  
4. The total area of all four sides of water walls, Roof tubes, Platen 
super heater, Division panels, Goose neck, Reheater coils and any 
other boiler internal surfaces as required.  
5. Scaffolding/sky climber will be provided by NTPC for accessing 
the areas to be cleaned.   
6. Sufficient parallel gangs have to be provided for cleaning the 
boiler round the clock in pump hours mentioned in tender enquiry. 
7. Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be 
given in Tender documents. 
Notes- The vendor must have at least Two nos. of Trolley mounted 
and 04 nos. of portable HP jet cleaning machines. 
 
 
Online Pressure Setting for Spring Loaded Safety Valves: 
 
1. On-line Pressure Setting for Spring Loaded Safety Valves for 
entire range of pressure in thermal power plants. (Main Steam, 
HRH, CRH, DRUM, SEPRATOR, AUX. STEAM Systems). 
2. On-line setting of Safety Valves using Trevi-Test method as per 
set values provided by NTPC within ± 0.5% error of set value. 
3. Contractor has to get the calibration of his equipment verified by 
NTPC representative on each occasion before starting of Safety 
Valve Setting. 
4. All the adjustments required to be done for setting of Safety 
Valve are in the scope of contractor and it has to be done in 
presence of NTPC representative. 
5. Contractor has to submit valve setting report along with testing 
graph for each Safety Valve for which setting is done.   
6. Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be 
given in Tender documents. 
 
 
Notes: 
1. Execution of the works of "HP Jet cleaning of Boiler Internal 
Surfaces", "Online pressure setting of Spring Loaded Safety 
Valves" and “Coal Compartment assembly” may be done by the 
Agency itself, only if it has the past experience and capability of 
executing such works in a Boiler of minimum 200 MW capacity or 
these works may be outsourced to only those sub-vendors who have 
the past experience and capability of executing such works in a 
Boiler of minimum 200 MW capacity. 
 
2. The approval for execution of Work by the Contractor himself or 
by his Subcontractor will be subjected to approval of EIC based on 
submission of experience details by the appointed Contractor for a 
particular package. 
 
3. The detail scope of work & other Terms & conditions would be 
specified separately in the Tender against the specific requirements. 
6  Technical 
Qualifying 
requirements 
A: Technical Qualifying Requirements 
 
1. The Applicant should possess valid Certificate of recognition as 
Special Class ‘Boiler Repairer/Erector’ issued from concerned IBR 
approving authority of any State/Union Territory of India. 
 
2. The Applicant should have executed the work of “Overhauling/ 
Maintenance/Erection of Boiler pressure parts and associated works” 
in a Coal Based Thermal Power Station of India with Unit capacity 
200 MW or more during the preceding Five (5) years, reckoned as on 
the date of submission of application. 
 
 
 
B: Document to be submitted by Applicant in support of meeting 
QR 
 
1. Valid IBR approval Letter/Certificate with endorsement from any 
state/Union Territory Statutory Authority. 
 
2. Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms 
and conditions, BOQ (issued within last Five (05) years reckoned as 
on date of submission of application) in support of award and copy of 
Client’s Completion Certificate/RA Bill/ Final deviation statement 
from the concerned client /copies of invoice to establish successful 
execution as per QR. 
 
 
 
C: Additional Documents to be submitted 
 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar 
work during previous five years from the date of submission 
application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/ Final 
deviation statement from the concerned client in support of execution 
of job against each of the submitted POs. 
 
2. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate, if applicable. 
 
3. PF & GST/Service Tax registration certificate from the concerned 
excise department / any other statutory document. 
 
3. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned as on the date of 
submission of application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available, then certified copy by a registered practicing 
Chartered Accountant may be submitted. 
 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to submit for enlistment.  
 
5. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during evaluation. 
 
D: Notes 
 
1. Similar works means “Overhauling/ Maintenance/Erection of 
Boiler Pressure Parts and associated works” AND/OR 
“Overhauling/Maintenance/Erection of fuel firing system consisting 
of Coal Compartment assembly including its associated auxiliaries 
(Burner Block/ Oil Gun/ SADC/ Burner Tilt etc.)”  AND/OR “HP Jet 
Cleaning of Boiler Heating Surfaces” AND/OR “On-line Pressure 
setting work for Spring Loaded Safety Valves”, in a Coal Based 
Thermal Power Station of India with Unit capacity 200 MW or more 
during the preceding Five (5) years reckoned as on the date of 
submission of application. 
 
2. Reference works executed by the applicant, as a member of Joint 
Venture/ Consortium/ Associate can also be considered provided: 
 
a) The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint 
Ventures /consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed 
joint venture agreement / consortium agreement / deed of joint 
undertaking and the applicant's scope of work and break-up of 
quantities executed by them as individual contribution in the joint 
Venture / Consortium / Associate, duly authenticated by the Project 
Authority/Owner, meet the relevant provisions of eligibility criteria. 
 
b) In case the reference work has been executed by the applicant in an 
integrated joint venture wherein allocation of scope of work and 
break-up of quantities between the partners is not clearly specified in 
the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for establishing the 
eligibility as per technical criteria of (…indication Section of QR & 
SOW – package specific...) the credit of executed quantities can be 
claimed by the applicant in the ratio of applicant's share in the 
integrated joint Venture Agreement, provided the applicant 
establishes that it regularly undertakes works mentioned in QR. The 
executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture shall be 
duly authenticated by the Project Authority/owner.” 
 
3. All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the Special 
terms & conditions (STC) available at VDC portal “vendor.ntpc.co.in 
". 
 
Note: The terms and conditions as above shall supplement/amend the Standard Terms & 
Conditions (STC) uploaded in the VDC portal. Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions in this 
document shall prevail over those in the STC. 