                                               NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
Supply, Supervision of Installati on, commissioning & 3 year CAMC of  In situ flue gas analyser 
for CEMS at NTPC Kudgi 
Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900311937 
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” from eligible bidders 
for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope of work comprises of Supply, Supervision of Installa tion, commissioning & 3 year CAMC 
of In situ flue gas analyser for CEMS at NTPC Kudgi 
The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s 
and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, 
unloading, storage and equipment erection including associated civil and structural works if any. 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as 
per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per etender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per etender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per etender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per etender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per etender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 2,00,000/-  
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of 
receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form  as stipulated in the Bidding documents. Option for 
Online payment of tender fee is also made available at GepNIC/e tender portal. Bidders are requested to please 
avail the facility. 
For details please refer Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD through BG/ST or EMD Exemption Allowed” Tab is enabled only for the 
purpose of allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of the bank Guarantee. Bidders are advised 
NOT to upload MSE/other document for availing exemption.  
Payment of EMD and Tender fee is not exempted in this tender. Bids without adequate Bid Security and 
Tender fee, as per tender provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of tender fee is to be done only 
through online facility on GePNIC portal. Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through online payment of bid 
security amount applicable for this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with 
the tender provisions. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank guarantee and also ensure 
that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the address mentioned above before the 
submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be subm itted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, failing which 
bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: Not applicable 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, a s a part of his Bid an 
Earnest Money Deposit of amount ₹2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakhs only) 
 
c) Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/Performance Security is to be submitted as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee towards Bid 
Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG should only be as per Form-1 specified vide Sec VIII Book 3 
of 3 and EMD BG submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard Format shall be rejected for which 
NTPC shall not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed envelope shall be rejected by the 
Employer as being non-responsive.  
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the stipulated bid submission 
closing date and time at the address given below.  
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security and integrity pact(if applicable) shall be rejected by the 
employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted through electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, Bidder to submit 
the proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
6.0 Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. 
Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated 
hereunder: 
 
 
 
 
7.1   Technical Criteria: 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated 
hereunder: 
 
7.1.1  (a) The Bidder should be a manufacturer of 'Flue gas analyzer/ SOX-NOX analyzer'. 
OR 
 (b) The bidder should be a Subsidiary/ Authorized Channel partner/ Authorized dealer of 
the OEM [as described in 7.1.1(a) above] as on the date of Techno-commercial Bid opening. 
       A n d  
7.1.2 The Bidder should have executed the order (s) for 'Gas analyser(s)', as detailed below in 
the preceding seven (7) years as on date of techno commercial bid opening. 
One (1) order having executed value not less than Rs. 97 Lakhs 
OR 
Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 60 Lakhs each 
OR 
Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 48 Lakhs each 
   
Notes for Technical Criteria 
 
(i) The word “executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
 
(ii) In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of Techno- 
Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder's client shall be considered acceptable. 
 
(iii) For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be 
considered. In case of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break –up of 
basic value and taxes. 
 
(iv) The bidder must submit Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / 
BIS license / ISO certificate / any other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer 
as per QR. 
 
(v) In case bidder has executed reference work under two orders one for supply and one for 
services separately for the same Installation/Plant, combined value of both the orders shall be 
considered as a single order for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
(vi) In case, Bidder is Authorised Dealer of manufacturer or Authorised Channel Partner of 
manufacturer, then Bidder should be specifically authorized by manufacturer for participation 
in the tender 
 
 
7.2     Financial criteria: 
 
7.2.1    The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, should not be less than Rs. 121 Lakh (Rupees One 
hundred Twenty-one Lakh only) during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on the 
date of Techno- Commercial bid opening 
 
7.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial  criteria, stipulated at Cl. 7.2.1 above on its own, its 
holding company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. 7.2.1 above, 
provided that the net worth of such holding company as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the holding company. In such an event, the 
bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from 
the holding company, supported by Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the bidder 
in case of award. 
 
7.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity basis, the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the 
bidder furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of its qualification. 
 
 Copies of the unaudited9 unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.  
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated annual report of the company. 
 7.2.4 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial Bid 
Opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its  financial  parameters, the  audited  results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding  the  last  financial  year shall  be  considered  for evaluating  the  financial parameters.  
 
 Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
Commercial  Bid  Opening  and  the Certificate  from  the  practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for the Clause 7.2: 
  
1.     Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 
2. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies 
Act of India, in vogue. 
 
3. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account, but does not include reserves credited out 
of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
 
8.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, will be 
eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a land border wi th India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects 
 
9.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT without assigning 
any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
10.0 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be qualified. Bids 
shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of Bidder’s representatives 
who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
11.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
 
12.0 Address for communication: 
 
Sr. Manager/AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chattisgarh - 492018  
Email: harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in / gauravsaraswat@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515293 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
13.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 04-Nov-2025 03:12 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference
Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900311937
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101650_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online
Bankers
S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf EMD Details
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Last Three
Financial
Years Balance
sheets
.pdf
Attachment 3
QR
documents of
Technical Bid
.pdf
Other
Attachments
of Technical
Bid
3 Finance .xls Price Bid BOQ
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Supply, Supervision of Installation, commissioning, CAMC of In situ flue gas analyser for CEMS at NTPC Kudgi
Work Description As per BId doc
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 365 
Location Western Region
Head QuartersII
Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 

Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region
Head QuartersII
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 04-Nov-2025 05:00 PM Bid Opening Date 27-Nov-2025 03:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
04-Nov-2025 05:00 PM Document Download / Sale End
Date
25-Nov-2025 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 05-Nov-2025 09:00 AM Clarification End Date 12-Nov-2025 09:00 AM 
Bid Submission Start Date 05-Nov-2025 09:00 AM Bid Submission End Date 25-Nov-2025 03:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 109.93
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tender Documents BidDoc.rar Bid Document 15748.51
2 BOQ BOQ_104855.xls BOQ 313.50
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Expected Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the
PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT
requirements of the Tender. - [ MLC Declaration for Services]
Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules - [ SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC - [ FRAUD PREVENTION] Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC - [
BANNING POLICY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
5.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per tender documents on Restrictions
on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India -
[ LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE]
Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements - [ QR COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents - [ NO DEVIATION
CERTIFICATION] Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in Harsh Mamodia Harsh Mamodia
2. ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in AJAY SHIVHARE AJAY KUMAR SHIVHARE
3. anandshanker@ntpc.co.in ANAND SHANKER ANAND SHANKER
4. cpsingh@ntpc.co.in Chandra Prakash Singh CHANDRA PRAKASH SINGH
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal
places
2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Agree
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name Harsh
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By Harsh Mamodia
Designation Sr. Manager
Created Date 04-Nov-2025 02:53 PM
 