NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/VDC Raipur 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for “Single Electrical Contract 
in NTPC Plant (Category-1)” 
A) CEG DETAILS
1.0 CEG NO. EMD-10 
2.0 CEG DESCRIPTION Single Electrical Contract in NTPC Plant 
3.0 CEG RESPONISBILITY VDC 
B) 
A. TECHNICAL CRITERIA
1. The bidder should be Class A Electrical Contractor or Class A Electrical License holder or 
having valid Electrical License issued by any State Government .
2. The bidder should have executed the similar works in India during the preceding five (5) years 
reckoned as on date of submission of application
Similar works is as explained in the following paragraphs and is in Combination given
her
eunder:
Works in following combinations:
(A1 and A2) or (A1 and B2) or (A2 and B1) or (B1 and B2 ) or   (C1 )
Notations as above are explained below: 
A1 Maintenance of Electrical equipment / Installations comprising of any Three of the following 
with voltage class 3.3 KV or above in Electrical Power Generating unit of capacity 200 MW or 
above for a p eriod of 2 Years or higher in a single contract or in multiple contract (period of 
Contract should be minimum 1 year) 
(i) Power Transformers
(ii) Switchgears
(iii) Electrical rotating machines
(iv) Power supply / cabling system
A2 Maintenance of Switchyard and associated equipment of voltage level 220 KV or above in 
Electrical Power Generating unit of capacity 200 MW or above for a period of 2 years or higher 
in a single contract or in multiple  Contract (period of contract should be minimum 1 year) 
B1 Erection and Commissioning of Electrical equipment/Installations Comprising of any 
Three of the following with voltage class 3.3 KV or Above in two Electrical Power Generating 
unit of capacity 200 MW or Above 
(i) Power Transformers
(ii) Switchgears
(iii) Electrical rotating machines
(iv) Power supply / cabling system
B2 Erection and Commissioning of Switchyard and associated equipment of Voltage level 220 
KV or above in two Electrical Power Generating unit of   Capacity 200 MW or above. 
C1 Complete maintenance contract of Electrical equipment/Installations in two Electrical Power 
Generating unit of capacity 200 MW or above for a period of 2 years or higher in a single 
contract or in multiple contract (period of Contract should be minimum 1 year) 
NOTE: 
1. In case of sub criterion at A1 & B1,  the execution of three areas out of the four (Power 
Transformers, Switchgears, Electrical rotating machines, Power supply / cabling system)  may 
be in single work order or multiple work orders.
C) Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms and conditions, BOQ and Client’s 
Completion Certificates /RA bill/Final Deviation Statement for the work executed and other 
certificate/documents as mentioned elsewhere. 
  D) Documents to be submitted to find executed value of orders: 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, 
following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three (3) POs of the highest executed values of similar work (see definition at point E:Note- 1
below) during previous five (5) years from the date of application. Client’s Completion
Certificates /RA bill/Final Deviation Statement for the work executed from the concerned
buy
er/s in support of successful execution of the work against the POs to be submitted, duly
certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company
or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA). No certification & verification is required for
doc
uments pertaining to NTPC Limited & its Subsidiaries. These will be required for calculation
of execution capability.
For further details on Specified Third-Party Inspection Agencies (TPIA), you may please refer
STC (Standard Terms & Conditions for Enlistment) Rev02 on VDC PORTAL.
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement with UDIN No. for the previous three (3)
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case where the audited results
for the last financial years as on the date of application are not available, the financial result certified
by
 a practicing Chartered accountant shall be considered acceptable.
3. GSTIN certificate, PAN, Power of attorney, Letter of undertaking ,works information etc as
mentioned in enlistment application pages of website www.vendor.ntpc.co.in
4. NTPC can request for other documents as necessary during the course of evaluation.
E) NOTE-1 Similar works means: "Operation or and Maintenance or and Erection & commissioning of 
Electrical items in Industry “. 
NOTE-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied 
against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of 
application). Where PO value is composite (i.e., including Taxes etc.), the applicant to 
give item-wise break-up of Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
F) Scope of 
Work 
Attached 
G) Category 
of 
Enlistme
nt 
Category 1 Enlistment (Upto 04 Cr) 
SCOPE OF WORKS  
1. Overhauling/ Preventive and Breakdown Maintenance of HT/LT Motors including 
alignment / centering of rotor of HT Motors 
2. Repair/ Varnishing and Replacement of defective parts of HT/LT Motors 
3. Replacement of a defective HT/LT motor with spare motor issued by owner.  
4. LV/MV/HV Cables Laying - Cables transporting, laying in new /existing 
cable trays, trays in trenches, underground, cable galleries, pipes, ducts 
with proper cleaning, saddling, supporting etc., cables termination, Cables 
jointing, cable fault detection, cables dressing, cables dismantling, cable tray  
replacement / cleaning, Cable tagging. 
5. Daily (cleaning and checking), monthly, quarterly, and annual Preventive 
           maintenance & breakdown maintenance and related testing of Switchyard  
            equipment’s like: - 
          a) 400KV & 220 KV SF6 breakers 
          b)  Shunt reactors 
         c)  33 KV & 11KV breakers (including support work for O/H of breakers) 
         d)  EHV & HV bus bars 
         e) Lightning arrestors & Wave trap 
         f) Isolators & Earthing switches (including dismantling and re-erection) 
         g) Relay and control panels 
         h) Earthing system checking and rectification for individual equipment’s as well as 
              earthing pit & mat. 
6. Overhauling/ Preventive Maintenance/ Breakdown Maintenance/ 
           replacement of Power / Distribution Transformers, processing of transformer oil    
           filtration, replacement of Gaskets, Bolts and Nuts, Breather, Bushings, Studs, valves  
          etc. 
7. Electrical Maintenance/OH of Power Plant HT/LT Switchgear / Motorized Actuators / 
Battery and Battery Chargers / DCDB / Window/Split AC / Lighting Maintenance & 
Street Lighting / Electrical Shift Maintenance Jobs / EOT Crane & Hoist 
8. Electrical Maintenance/OH of Auxiliaries of Turbine, Generator, Boiler & ESP, VFD, , 
Package A/C System, FGD  
9. Electrical Maintenance/OH of Fire Fighting, Hydrogen Plant, DM Plant, MWPH, CW 
& CT Plant, ETP, AHP and 11kV Pole Mounted Sub Station, Electrical Equipment’s 
of CHP 
10. Daily monitoring and maintenance of solar roof top systems shall also be carried out 
after discussion with EIC. The module washing shall be carried out on weekly basis / 
as per EIC instruction. Required mop and wiper shall be supplied by the agency. 
Support for any breakdown shall also be provided. Support as required from time to 
time for maintaining availability, scheduled and preventive maintenance, replacement 
of any equipment’s in the plant including defective PV Modules, Inverters, cables, etc 
and maintaining daily, monthly log sheets for operation detail shall also be provided 
and activities shall be finalized in discussion with EIC. 
11.  Scope also includes String current monitoring on weekly basis, Open Circuit Voltage 
(Voc) on monthly basis, regular inverter checks and PM, module tilting twice a year, 
supplying log books/stationery, attending breakdowns, maintaining module washing 
system including pipes and pumps etc, supplying consumables, sim card data 
recharging for remote monitoring system. Party to arrange/provide required T&Ps for 
the work . 
 
 