 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT CELL, USSC, RAIPUR 
 
SECTION-I 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
FOR 
 
CENTRALIZED RATE CONTRACT FOR PROCUREMENT OF 
TRANSFORMER OIL FOR NTPC POWER STATIONS 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
NIT No: 9900288204 
 
Bidding Document No: 9900288204 (Tender ID) 
 
1. NTPC invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis  (Envelope-I: 
Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope -II: Price Bid) from Eligible Bidders for aforesaid 
package, as per the scope of work/supply briefly mentioned  hereinafter.  
 
2. Brief Scope of  Work/Supply  
 
The scope under this contract includes: 
Supply of Transformer Oil for NTPC Power Stations  
The detailed scope and description covered under this package has been specified in 
relevant clause of Detailed Technical Specification/Technical Data Sheet.  
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Domestic Commercial 
Borrowings/Own  sources. 
 
3. Detailed Specification, Scope of Work/Supply and Terms and Conditions are given in 
the bidding document, which are available for examination and sale at our e 
Procurement Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following 
schedule: 
 
Document Download 
Commencement Date & Time 
As mentioned in GePNIC 
Source of IFB/NIT  VEC, Raipur 
Form of Contract/Tender Category  RATE CONTRAT FOR SUPPLY  
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any)  
As mentioned in GePNIC 

Last Date and Time for Bid submission  As mentioned in GePNIC 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time  As mentioned in GePNIC 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time  Shall be intimated separately.  
Tender Fee (INR)  Nil (This shall prevail even if in  conflict 
with anywhere else)  
Bid Security /EMD  Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs only)  
Integrity Pact  Not Applicable  
Benefit to MSME  Applicable. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of  their bids. 
Delivery Period  The period of Rate contract shall be 
One Year (01 year) from award of 
contract. 
 
 Staggered Delivery over Rate 
Contract Period shall be as per 
NTPC Station's Purchase Order. 
Supply to NTPC stations should 
be within 03 months from  the 
date of intimation of supply. 
 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any)  Not Applicable  
Reverse Auction  Not Applicable  
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified above.” 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-Commercial 
Proposal” and “Price Proposal” online (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within 
the bid submission date and time as mentioned above. Only Techno -Commercial 
proposals will be opened on the date and timed mentioned  above. 
Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the 
website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in  
 
NTPC will have the right to accept or reject any (in part) or all the offer without assigning 
any reason. 
4. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated under Annexure-A. 
5. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security (EMD) in the form as stipulated in the 
Bidding documents.  
 
Online payment option for Bid Security is made available at GePNIC portal. 
Bidders are requested to please avail the facility. 
 
Bid Security/EMD may be paid through online payment of bid security 
amount applicable for this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate 
value in accordance with the tender provisions. 
 
BID SECURITY (IF SUBMITTED OFFLINE) SHALL BE SUBMITTED IN A 
SEALED ENVELOPE SEPARATELY IN PHYSICAL FORM BY THE 
STIPULATED BID SUBMISSION CLOSING DATE AND TIME AT THE ADDRESS 
GIVEN BELOW. 
 
IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND  
TRANSFER ( Electronic payment at E -tender portal ), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE 
PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY SHALL BE 
REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT 
BE OPENED. 
 
6. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators  /associates/  subsidiaries  / group 
companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment 
in the overall interest of the Employer. The physical assessment shall include but not  be 
limited to the assessment of office/facilities/banker's/reference workers by Employer. A 
negative determination  of such assessment of capacity and capabilities may result in 
rejection of the bid.  
 
7. UDIN: It is mandatory to mention UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) 
by the bidders while submitting audited financial statements, other CA 
certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette notification dt. 
02.08.2019. 
 
Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L 
Account (wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of 
compliance to Qualifying Requi rements (QR), will carry Unique Document 
Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
8. This is a NO DEVIATION TENDER, which means - no deviation, whatsoever, is 
permitted by the employer to any provisions of bidding  documents. 
 
9. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding  Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border 
with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competen t 
authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects.  
 
10. Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is qualified. 
Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence  
of Bidder’s representatives  who choose to attend the bid opening. 
 
11. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the 
subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. Further, NTPC 
reserves right to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDA 
published in the portal at any time. NTPC also reserves the right to extend/change the 
bidding schedule through publishing necessary CORRIGENDA in the portal if the 
situation demand so at any time. The corrigendum  as decided by NTPC and deemed fit 
would be published in the portal as per provisions therein. This prevails over the 
relevant provisions elsewhere in the bid document. The corrigendum/amendment as 
published/posted  in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed that the 
information contained therein will have been considered by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders 
are advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigenda 
if any. 
 
12. Transfer of Bidding Documents downloaded by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible.  
 
13. Address for Communication  
DGM (Vendor Enlistment Cell ) NTPC 
Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre,  
Vendor Enlistment Cell ,  
Western Region -II Head Quarter, Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar  
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code -492101 
Mob No.: 9471002754  
Email: bharatprasad @ntpc.co.in  
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or  www.ntpc.co.in  
 
14. Registered Office: 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, 
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE-A 
 
 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated hereunder: 
 
1.1 . Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1.1. The bidder should be a manufacturer of Transformer Oil. 
 
AND 
 
1.1.2 The bidder should have tested/ got tested Transformer oil, as per IEC:60296, at 
a laboratory accredited by National/International accreditation agency not earlier than 
02 years as on date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
AND 
 
1.1.3 The bidder should have supplied at least 60 KL of Transformer Oil as per 
IEC:60296 to Transformer Manufacturer(s) of 220 KV or higher class, prior to date of 
techno commercial bid opening. This quantity of 60 KL can be supplied either in one 
order or aggregate of multiple orders. 
 
AND 
 
1.1.4 The bidder should have executed contract for supply of Transformer Oil as 
per the following within the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of  techno-
commercial bid opening: 
 
i) Single contract with Executed value not less than Rs 196 lakhs. 
 
OR 
 
ii) Two (02) contracts with Executed value not less than Rs 122 Lakhs each 
 
OR 
 
iii) Three (03) contracts with Executed value not less than Rs 98 Lakhs each. 
 
Notes for 1.1: 
 
1.The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved 
the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not  
completed / closed. 
 
2.In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered 
acceptable. 
 
3.For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall 
be considered. In case of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break 
–up of basic value and taxes. 
 
1.2 Financial Criteria: 
 
1.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, should not be less than Rs 245 
Lakhs  during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on the date 
of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
1.2.2  In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. 1.2.1 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at Cl. 1.2.1 above, provided that the net worth of such 
Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In 
such an event, the bidder would b e required to furnish along with its Techno -
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract 
by the bidder in case of award. 
 
1.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
 
• Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along 
with copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding  
Company. 
 
• A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated  
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the 
company. 
 
1.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the 
date of Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified 
by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder 
is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years  
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial  
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the  
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the  
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered  Accountant certifying the financial  
parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 1.2: 
 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of  
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit and 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus 
 