 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
EPC Package for 
 
BESS Implementation at NTPC Thermal Power Stations (Lot-2) 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: 2025_NTPC_101702_1 
Bidding Document No.: CS-0011-171B-9 
    
1.0 NTPC Limited invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single Stage Two Envelope 
Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial and Envelope-II: Price) from eligible Bidders 
for aforesaid package as per the brief Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
Lot-2 comprises the following Stations/projects: 
Sr. 
No. 
Station Name 
Battery 
Capacity 
(MWh) 
1  Barauni Thermal Power Station (Barauni) 1000 
2 Gadarwara Super Thermal Power Station (Gadarwara) 320 
3 NTECL-Vallur Thermal Power Station (Vallur) 300 
4 Khargone Super Thermal Power Station (Khargone) 250 
5 National Capital Power Station Dadri- II (Dadri) 200 
6 Tanda Super Thermal Power Station-II (Tanda) 200 
7 Bongaigaon Thermal Power Station (Bongaigaon) 150 
8 Solapur Super Thermal Power Station (Solapur)  150 
9 Feroze Gandhi Unchahar Thermal Power Station 
(Unchahar) 100 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
BESS Implementation at NTPC thermal stations, interconnection with the existing thermal 
power facilities as defined in the Technical Specifications and Comprehensive Annual 
Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of the BESS system for entire design life of BESS. The 
BESS shall comprise of Battery System, Battery Management System (BMS), Energy 
Management System (EMS) and SCADA, Power Conversion System (PCS), Inverter Duty 
Transformer (IDT), 33 kV pooling switchgear, Protection system, Communication System, 
HT & LT System, Auxiliary power system, Fire Fighting, remote control and monitoring, 
and all other associated materials and accessories necessary for trouble free operation 
and maintenance of the BESS system.  
 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents 
 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity. 
 
4.0 Only Class-I and Class-II Local Suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) 
from Non-Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
5.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/and the Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under:   
 
 
Issue of IFB 06.11.2025 
Bidding Document No CS-0011-171B-9 
IFB/Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101702_1 
Price Bid Tender ID 1. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at Barauni 
Thermal Power Station (Barauni) to be ﬁlled at 
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101709_1 
2. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at Gadarwara 
Super Thermal Power Station (Gadarwara)to be 
ﬁlled at Tender ID  2025_NTPC_101711_1 
3. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at NTECL-
Vallur Thermal Power Station (Vallur) to be ﬁlled at 
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101715_1 
4. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at Khargone 
Super Thermal Power Station (Khargone) to be 
ﬁlled at Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101717_1 
5. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at National 
Capital Power Station Dadri- II (Dadri) to be ﬁlled 
at Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101718_1 
6. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at Tanda Super 
Thermal Power Station-II (Tanda) to be ﬁlled at 
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101722_1 
7. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at Bongaigaon 
Thermal Power Station (Bongaigaon) to be ﬁlled at 
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101723_1 
8. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at Solapur 
Super Thermal Power Station (Solapur) to be ﬁlled 
at Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101724_1 
9. Price Bid for BESS Implementation at Feroze 
Gandhi Unchahar Thermal Power Station  
(Unchahar) to be ﬁlled at Tender ID 
2025_NTPC_101726_1 
 
Start of Documents download 
Date  
13.11.2025 
Date for Pre-Bid conference 20.11.2025 
Last date for receipt of queries 
from bidders (if any) ** 
20.11.2025 upto 1700 Hrs (IST) 
Bid receipt date & time for 
Envelope-I (Techno–
Commercial) & Envelope-II 
(Price) bid 
05.12.2025 upto 1300 Hrs (IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for 
Envelope-I (Techno–
Commercial) bid 
05.12.2025 at 1500 Hrs (IST) 
Cost of Bidding Document             FREE  
Bid Opening Date & Time for 
Envelope-II (Price) bid 
Shall be intimated after opening of Envelope-I 
(Techno-Commercial) Bids. 
 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding 
schedule of the Tender.  
**No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference as specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC. 
** Queries from Bidders should be in the Format Attached as Appendix-II. 
 
6.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security as specified below in the form as stipulated 
in the Bidding Documents. 
Each Bidder is required to declare the “Interest Capacity (in MWh)” in the prescribed “Form 
of Interest” for which Bidder is interested in taking award. Bidders shall submit the Bid 
Security as specified in table below based on the “Interest Capacity (in MWh)” they are 
interested in taking the award: 
Sr. No. “Interest Capacity (in MWh)” submitted by the Bidder. 
 
Bid Security Amount 
(in INR) 
1 up to 100 MWh 2 Crores only 
2 101 to 400 MWh 5 Crores only 
3 401 to 700 MWh 10 Crores only 
4 701 to 1750 MWh 20 Crores only 
5 1751 to 2670 MWh 50 Crores only 
    
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID 
SECURITY IS SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), 
BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
   
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is Attached as Appendix-I  
 
8.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
or delete any of the Projects under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever 
and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals 
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
10.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, 
will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bid Documents and/or submission of Bids shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified. Bids shall be submitted and opened at the 
address given below. 
12.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the Bidder / its Collaborators / Associates / Subsidiaries / 
Group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
13.0  Address for Communication: 
AGM (Contract Services) / Sr. Manager (Contract Services), 
NTPC Limited, 
Sixth Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA
Pin - 201301
Tel. No.: +919650992301/ 7588184070 
E-mail: abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in/ rsingh03@ntpc.co.in
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.com or www.ntpc.co.in
14.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
Appendix-I 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QR) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder should 
also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and Clause 2.0.  
1.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1 The bidder should have manufactured and supplied Batteries of cumulative capacity of 
minimum 20 MWh for grid interactive battery energy storage system(s), out of which at least 
one reference grid interactive battery energy storage system, where minimum 5 MWh capacity 
has been supplied in a single order, which should have been successfu lly commissioned at 
least six (6) months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
OR 
1.2 The bidder should have supplied, installed/supervised installation and 
commissioned/supervised commissioning of grid interactive battery energy storage system(s) 
of cumulative installed capacity of minimum 20 MWh, out of which at least one reference grid 
interactive battery energy storage system, where minimum 5 MWh capacity has been supplied 
in a single order, which should have been successfully commissioned at least six (6) months 
prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening.  
OR 
1.3 The Bidder should have designed or engineered, supplied, erected/ supervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning of Solar Photo Voltaic (SPV)/Wind based grid 
connected power plant(s) of cumulative installed capacity of 40 MWAC or higher, out of which 
at least one reference plant of 10 MWAC or higher capacity should have been in successful 
operation for at least six (6) months prior to the date of techno commercial bid opening. 
OR 
1.4 (i) The Bidder should have executed, in the last 10 years from the last day of month previous  
to one in which NIT has been invited, industrial project(s) either as developer or an EPC 
Contractor in the area of Power / Steel / Oil & Gas/ Petro -chemical/ Fertilizer/ Cement /  
Flue Gas Desulphurization and/or any other process industry with the total value of such  
projects being INR 375 Crores or more. At least one of such projects should have a total 
contract value of INR 150 Crores or more . These project (s) should have been in successful 
operation for a period of not less than six (06) months prior to the date of techno -commercial 
bid opening. 
AND 
(ii) The bidder should have executed at least one (1) Electrical Sub -station of minimum 33kV
voltage level, consisting of equipment such as 33kV or above voltage level circuit breakers and
power transformer, either as developer or as EPC Contractor which should have been in
successful operation for at least six (6) months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid
opening.
The works referred to at Clause 1.4 (i) & 1.4 (ii) can be in same or different projects. 
OR 
 
1.5 The Bidder who meets the requirement of Clause 1.4 (i) above only, shall associate/collaborate 
or have manufacturing license agreement with a Battery manufacturer meeting the 
requirements stipulated at Clause 1.1 above.  
In case of association/collaboration or license, the bidder shall furnish along with the techno-
commercial bid a copy of such license or association/collaboration agreement done with the 
battery manufacturer and such agreement should be valid for a period up to the end of the 
defect liability period of the contract.  
The Bidder shall be required to furnish a letter of support from the associate/collaborator or 
licensing company meeting the requirements stipulated at clause 1.1 above for successful 
performance of the grid interactive battery energy storage system(s) as per the format enclosed 
with the bidding documents, and valid for a period up to the end of defect liability period of the 
contract.  
The Letter of Support along with such license or association/collaboration agreement shall be 
submitted along with the techno-commercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, 
and its bid shall be rejected. 
 
OR 
 
1.6 The bidder can participate if any of its Group company/Holding Company/Subsidiary company 
meets the requirement (s) of Clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 above. 
 
In such a case, Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking (jointly executed with the Holding 
Company/Subsidiary company/respective company of the Group Company  (as applicable ) 
qualified as per clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3) along with its techno -commercial bid for complete 
performance of the contract as per format enclosed in the bidding document, failing which the 
Bidder’s bid shall be rejected. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0 
a) For clause 1.1, reference projects for meeting cumulative manufacturing and supply 
experience of 20 MWh, may or may not be commissioned. 
b) For clause 1.2, Projects with Battery supplied by developer/owner as free issue item to bidder 
shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
c) For clause 1.1  and 1.2, the reference grid interactive battery energy storage system of 
minimum 5 MWh capacity should be at a single location developed by Bidder for itself or any 
other client. 
d) For Clause 1.3, the reference SPV/Wind based grid -connected power plant of 10 MWAC or 
above capacity should be at a single location developed by Bidder for itself or any other client. 
e) For clause 1.3, SPV based Roof-top/Floating solar power projects, which are grid connected, 
shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
f) For Clause 1.3, reference plants with solar PV module/Wind Turbine supplied by 
developer/owner as free issue item to bidder shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
g) For Clause 1.1,1.2 and 1.3, bidder shall provide relevant support documents to establish that 
reference projects are Grid Connected. 
h) For clause 1.4, developer means an entity who has either executed or got executed the 
work/project as owner of industrial projects. 
i) For clause 1.4, the execution of industrial project as EPC Contractor means that such EPC 
Contractor is responsible for all the activities i.e. Design or Engineering, Procurement, Erection 
(with/without civil works) and Commissioning of the project/work. 
j) For Clause 1.4, projects where the 33 kV substation equipment (including 33 kV or above 
voltage level) supplied by the developer/owner as free issue items to the bidder, with 
installation carried out by the EPC contractor, shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
k) The value of executed works in Clause 1.4 shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at 
current price level by adding 5% for each year on pro -rata basis after the end date of 
completion/execution/commissioning of the reference work, till the last day of month previous 
to one in which NIT has been invited. 
The specified value of executed works in Clause 1.4 shall be excluding any taxes and duties. 
l) The word "executed" in clauses 1.4 means: 
a) In case of Project(s), the project(s) should have been commissioned, even if the 
contract has been started earlier and / or is not completed / closed. 
b) In case of Contract(s), the scope of work under the contract(s) should have been 
completed, even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not closed. 
m) For clause 1.4, if the value of reference work is indicated in foreign currency, the exchange 
rate as on date of award of the reference work shall be considered. In case the exchange rate 
as on the date of award is not available, the exchange rate as on the next available day shall 
be considered. 
n) For establishing successful commissioning and operation of the reference projects as required 
in different clauses, bidder shall submit the certificate of successful commissioning and 
operation from the Owner of such reference project/plant. Certificate is sued by owner in the 
name of Bidder/intermediary Organization shall be acceptable. However, if bidder in clause 
1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 is also the owner of the reference project or if the bidder in clause 1.4 is a 
developer, certificate of successful commission ing of the project issued from Government 
Renewable Nodal Agency/Government Enterprise/ Discom/ Electricity Board etc and evidence 
of successful operation from intermediary procurer/ procurer/Discom/ Electricity Board etc 
shall be submitted. 
o) Direct/Indirect Order 
The bidder shall also be considered qualified, in case the award for executing the reference 
work has been received by the bidder either directly from the owner of the plant or any other 
intermediary organization. In such a case, a certificate from such owner of plant or any other 
intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the bidder along with its techno-
commercial bid in support of bidder’s claim of meeting the qualification requirement as per 
different clauses. 
p) Bidder should be corporate entities registered in India under the Companies Act 2013. 
q) ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a position 
to: 
i. Exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise.  
Or 
ii. Appoint more than fifty percent of members of Board of Directors in the other 
enterprise.  
 
2.0 Financial Criteria 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
 
2.1.1   The average annual turnover of the Bidder should not be less than the requirement as 
mentioned in the Table below, during the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date 
of techno-commercial bid opening. 
Project Average Annual Turnover Requirement 
Barauni INR 964 Crores (Indian Rupees Nine Hundred Sixty-
Four Crores Only)  
Bongaigaon INR 168 Crores (Indian Rupees One Hundred Sixty-
Eight Crores Only)  
Dadri-II INR 236 Crores (Indian Rupees Two Hundred 
Thirty-Six Crores Only)  
Unchahar-IV 
INR 115 Crores (Indian Rupees One Hundred 
Fifteen Crores Only)  
Gadarwara 
INR 380 Crores (Indian Rupees Three Hundred 
Eighty Crores Only)  
Khargone 
INR 245 Crores (Indian Rupees Two Hundred Forty-
Five Crores Only)  
Tanda-II 
INR 249 Crores (Indian Rupees Two Hundred Forty-
Nine Crores Only)  
Solapur 
INR 194 Crores (Indian Rupees One Hundred 
Ninety-Four Crores Only)  
Vallur 
INR 327 Crores (Indian Rupees Three Hundred 
Twenty-Seven Crores Only)  
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria on its own, its Holding 
Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided 
that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the pr eceding financial 
year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In 
such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno -Commercial 
bid, a Letter of Undertaking from its Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional 
and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the contract by the Bidder in case of 
award. 
2.1.2   Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less 
than 100% (one hundred percent) of bidder’s paid-up share capital. In case the Bidder does 
not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based 
on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its 
Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder 
and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or  Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of their 
total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% 
(seventy five percent) of their respective paid- up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = ((X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)) X 100 where X1, X2, X3 are individual 
Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid -up share capitals and 
Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents on substantiation 
of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
ii) Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno- commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited result of 
three (3) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the 
company are under audit as on techno -commercial bid opening and the Certificate from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
2.2.0 Financial Criteria for the Associate/Collaborator 
 
2.2.1 The average annual turnover of the associate/collaborator should not be less than the 
requirement as mentioned in Table below, during the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
Project Average Annual Turnover Requirement 
Barauni INR 96.40 Crores (Indian Rupees Ninety-Six Crores 
and Forty Lakhs Only)  
Bongaigaon INR 16.80 Crores (Indian Rupees Sixteen Crores and 
Eighty Lakhs Only)  
Dadri-II INR 23.60 Crores (Indian Rupees Twenty-Three Crores 
and Sixty Lakhs Only)  
Unchahar-IV 
INR 11.50 Crores (Indian Rupees Eleven Crores and 
Fifty Lakhs Only)  
Gadarwara 
INR 38.00 Crores (Indian Rupees Thirty-Eight Crores  
Only)  
Khargone 
INR 24.50 Crores (Indian Rupees Twenty-Four Crores 
and Fifty Lakhs Only)  
Tanda-II 
INR 24.90 Crores (Indian Rupees Twenty- Four Crores 
and Ninety Lakhs Only)  
Solapur 
INR 19.40 Crores (Indian Rupees Nineteen Crores and 
Forty Lakhs Only)  
Vallur 
INR 32.70 Crores (Indian Rupees Thirty-Two Crores 
and Seventy Lakhs Only)  
 
In case an associate/collaborator does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of  the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the  associate/collaborator would be required to furnish 
along with its Techno -Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from its Holding Company, 
supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the 
contract by the  associate/collaborator in case of award. 
2.2.2 Net Worth of the associate/collaborator as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
should not be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of associate/collaborator’s paid-up share 
capital. In case the associate/collaborator does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it 
can meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such 
a case, however the Net worth of the associate/co llaborator and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner 
should not be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. 
However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of 
their respective paid- up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = ((X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)) X 100 where X1, X2, X3 are individual 
Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, 
Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.2.3 In case the associate/collaborator is not able to  furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
associate/collaborator can be considered acceptable provided the associate/collaborator 
further furnishes the following documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
associate/collaborator along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements 
of its Holding Company. 
ii) Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno- commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. In case the associate/collaborato r is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited result of three (3) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating financial p arameters. Further, a certificate would be required from 
the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial 
results of the company are under audit as on techno -commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from a practi cing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and  miscellaneous 
expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus.  
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.  
iii. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act 2013.  
iv. For average annual turnover requirement indicated in foreign currency in Clause 2.1.1 and 
Clause 2.2.1, the exchange rates as on seven (7) days prior to the last date of submission of 
bid shall be used.  
v. The bidder shall be considered qualified only for those projects for which the specified Average 
Annual Turnover (AAT) requirement is less than or equal to the Bidder’s AAT and therefore, 
bidder may quote for all such projects. However, for consideration for award for project(s), the 
bidder is required to meet the aggregate financial requirement for all such project(s) (where 
the bidder is ranked as the lowest evaluated bidder ( L1) in line with bid document) as 
mentioned in Clause 2.1.1 and Clause 2.2.1. The bidders may refer to the detailed illustration 
enclosed with the bidding document. 
Appendix-II Format for Pre Bid Query 
Bidder’s Name and Address…………………….. 
Query No. Section  Clause No. Tender Document 
Condition 
Bidder’s query 