Invitation for Bids (IFB) Page 1 of 4 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 

Invitation for Bids (IFB) Page 2 of 4 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
PROJECT-CORPORATE CONTRACTS & 
MATERIALS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Procurement of ASTM 517 GR-F steel liner plates for Penstock works of 
bifurcation(BF1 and BF2) NTPC Rammam-III(3*40 mw) 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.: GEM/2025/B/6828299   
Bidding Document No.: 9900312655 
1. NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding Basis for aforesaid
Package, as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.
2. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by Bidder from the website
https://gem.gov.in. The tender is invited under e-tendering process.
3. This NIT is published on Open tender basis.
4. SCOPE OF WORK
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the Vol-III,Technical
Specification & SOW of Bidding Document No. As specified above.
5. NTPC intends to finance the subject package through a mix of debt and equity.
6. Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the following schedule:
Issuance of IFB  04.11.2025 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
The pre-bid queries shall be received 
through GeM representation tab only till 
the date the representation window is 
open. 
Bid receipt date & time  25.11.2025, 11.00 hrs. 
Date & Time for opening of Bid.  25.11.2025, 11.30 hrs. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL 
Bid Security Rs. 2,00,000.00 
Invitation for Bids (IFB) Page 3 of 4 
Bidder is advised to visit the GeM (e-tender) portal of Govt. for updated bidding 
schedule of the Tender.  
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) 
as specified at the tender portal”. 
7. Qualifying Requirements:
The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as stipulated Below:
1.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1 The Bidder should be a manufacturer or authorized dealer of the manufacturer of steel plates 
conforming to ASTM A517 Gr-F. The authorized dealer must submit authority letters from 
respective manufacturers, specifically to this tender Enquiry. 
1.2 The Bidder should have successfully executed/ completed work for supplying of ASTM A517 
Gr-F steel liner plates as per following criteria within the preceding Seven (7) years prior to 
Date of opening of Techno-Commercial Bid; 
a) Single Contract of Value not less than Rs. 1.25 Crores
or 
b) Two Contracts of value not less than Rs. 78 Lakhs each
or 
c) Three Contracts of value not less than Rs. 62 Lakhs each
Note: 
1.The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not
completed/closed.
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered acceptable.
3. While calculating executed value of PO, only basic value will be considered. Taxes and   duties will be
excluded.
2.0 Financial Criteria 
2.1 The average annual turnover (AAT) of the Bidder, in the preceding 3(three) financial Years as on 
date of Techno-Commercial Bid opening, shall not be less than INR 1.56 Cr (Indian Rupees One 
Crore Fifty-Six Lakhs Only). 
2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 2.1 above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. No. 2.1 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In 
such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable 
financial support for the execution of the contract by the bidder in case of award. 
2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification. 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with
copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format
Invitation for Bids (IFB) Page 4 of 4 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company.  
2.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to 
submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the 
date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for 2.0 above:  
1.Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
2.“Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per
Companies Act of India, in vogue.
8. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / intending Bidder
shall have any claim arising out of such action.
9. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has
extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development
projects.
10. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding
Documents, which may be downloaded from e-Tender website (https://gem.gov.in).
11. Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is
considered to be qualified.
12. This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted with it are confidential and
intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. You
are requested to keep all the information confidential and do not disclose it to any other
third party, persons or firms.
Address for communication: 
Shipra Kumari 
Sr. Manager (CC&M) 
 NTPC Limited 
 Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
e-mail: shiprakumari@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in
Tel No. 01204946555/ 01204946535