NTPC Ltd 
EOC, NOIDA 
Sub:  Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for ‘Cast Iron pipe lines for Ash conveying pipes of sizes 
up to 250 NB’   
A) MEG Details 
 1.0 MEG No. 16MEG-25 
 2.0 MEG Description Cast Iron pipe lines for Ash conveying pipes of sizes up to 250 
NB 
 3.0 Responsibility Centre CPC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of CI Pipes. 
2. The applicant should have a valid BIS license for IS-1536, Size 250 NB or above diameter. 
3. The applicant should have supplied CI Pipes of Size 250 NB or above diameter during last five years from 
date of application. 
Documents to be submitted in support of meeting Technical QR: 
1. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a   proof 
of being manufacturer as per QR. 
2. The PO (issued within last five years from the date of application for enlistment)  in support of award and 
completion certificate/copies of invoice to establish successful execution as per QR. 
3. Standard Published catalogue.   
C) Other Documents to be submitted: 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, following 
documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1.Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work (see definition at point D-Note below) during 
previous five years from the date of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs is to be submitted. 
 
2.Financial statements: 
2.1 In case of proprietorship and partnership firm having turnover more than 1 crore & Companies 
incorporated as per Companies act 2013: Audited Financial statements for the previous five completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application. 
2.2 For Proprietorship and partnership firm having turnover less than 1 Crore: Certified copy of Financial 
statements by a registered practicing Chartered accountant for the previous five completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. 
2.3 In case the audited financial statements of last financial year are not ready / available, then, certified copy 
of financial statements by a registered practicing Chartered accountant duly considered/accepted by 
CEO/CFO/Key Managerial Personnel 
Note: Financial statements means/includes balance sheet, profit and loss account/income and expenditure 
account, cash flow statement, statement of changes in equity and any explanatory note annexed to the same. 
3. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
1. 4. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during the course of evaluation. 
D Note-1 Similar works means: CI Pipes of Size 250 NB or above diameter and of thickness 11.38 or 
more (In mm) in last 5 years from the date of application for enlistment 
Note-2 The executed value means the basic value of quantity of similar works executed / supplied 
against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on the date of application). 
Where PO value is composite (i.e., including taxes etc.) the applican t to give item-wise break 
up of composite PO mentioning basic value, taxes etc. 
 
 
NTPC Ltd 
EOC, NOIDA 
Sub: Technical Specifications & Quality Plan for Cast Iron pipe lines for Ash conveying pipes of sizes 
up to 250 NB 
 
Technical Specifications: 
   
Quality Plan:  
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS 
1.0 MEG No. 16MEG-25 
2.0 MEG Description Cast Iron pipe lines for Ash conveying pipes of sizes up to 250 NB 
3.0 Responsibility 
Centre 
CPC 
B Technical Specifications 1. Centrifugally Casted CI pipes with plain ends 
2. Nominal bore   
3. IS 1536 2001 CL-  A to E 
 For Class A thickness is 11.38 mm with 10% increasing from 
Class A to E 