 
 
1 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
CC-OS, EOC Noida 
 
Subject: Qualifying requirement & other details for vendor enlistment – Vendors for supply 
of Cast Basalt Pipes. 
 
A) Details of MEG (Material Enlistment Group) 
MEG No 16MEG-10 
MEG Description Cast Basalt Pipes 
Responsibility Centre CC&M-CPC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of cast basalt lined pipes and should have supplied cast basalt 
pipe minimum 2500 meters of minimum 200 mm diameter, in any continuous 365 days period in the 
last five years from the date of application for enlistment. These supplies should have been made 
directly to thermal power plants / end user indust ries or to package contractors for ash handling 
system / material handling. 
 
2. The applicant should have in house testing facilities or should be able to arrange testing facilities at 
NABL/Government approved laboratories for carrying out complete analysis of the cast basalt lines 
MS Pipes & Bends as specified in the Technical Specifications / Quality Plans of the Owner. 
C) Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qu alifying 
Requirements: 
QR-1: i. Copy of valid documentary proof for being manufacturer of cast basalt lined pipes. 
ii. Copy of Purchase Orders from thermal powe r plants / end user industries / package  
contractors for cast basalt pipes as specified along with execution proofs 
 
QR-2: Self declaration from the applicant along with details of the specified facilities. 
D) Other documents to be submitted: 
In addition to the documents required in support  of meeting technical requirements as stated 
above, following documents are required to be submitted by the applicant for enlistment:  
 
1. Three POs of highest executed values of similar work during last five years from the 
date of application (PO date should not be more than five (5) years old as on the date 
of the application) along with copy of invoice / completion certificate from the 
concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against POs. 
 
2. Audited balance sheet including profit an d loss statement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. 
 
In case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification 
of financial statements from a practicing ch artered account may be submitted. In case, 
Applicant is not able to submit the cert ificate from practicing chartered Account 
certifying its financial parameters, the audi ted results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for eval uating the financial 
parameters. Further a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the application format documents stating that the financial results 
of the company are under audit as on the date of Application and the Certificate from 
the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available 
  
3. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
 
2 
 
 
E) Note-1 Definition of Similar work ( Refer to Point 1 of Row D above) :- Supply of cast basalt lined 
pipes / cast basalt lined bends of minimum dia 200 mm to thermal power plants / end user 
industries / package contractors for ash handling system / material handling. 
 Note-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works / orders executed / 
supplied against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed PO, as on the date of 
application). Where PO value is composite (i.e. including taxes etc.), the applicant should 
submit item wise break up of composite PO value mentioning basic PO Value, Tax details 
etc. 
 
  
 
 
3 
 
 
A) Details of MEG  
MEG No 16MEG-10 
MEG Description Cast Basalt Pipes 
Responsibility Centre CC&M-CPC 
B) Technical Specifications 
 Specific Gravity: 2.8 to 3.1 g/cm3 (Min). 
 Hardness of Basalt Lining: 8 Mohs (Min). 
 Compressive Strength: 4500 kg/cm2(Min) 
 Bending Strength: 300 kg/cm2 (Minimum) 
 Basalt thickness: 20mm (with tolerance of ± 2 mm) 
 Casing: MS-pipe as per IS 1239 / 3589 having thickness 6 mm 
 Basalt casting in the form of cylinder 
 
 

