NTPC LTD 
Vendor Development Cell, CPG-1, Raipur 
 
Sub: Qualifying requirement for Centralized Enlistment of Vendors for Seamless SS Boiler Tubes 
(without shot peened). 
 
A) MEG Details   
 1.0 MEG No. 48MEG-05 
 2.0 MEG Description Enlistment of Vendors for Seamless SS Boiler  
Tubes (without shot peened) 
 3.0 Responsibility Centre CPG-1/ VDC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
Option-I 
The bidder should be a Boiler Manufacturer and should have supplied at least one (1) 
number of Boiler to any Thermal power plant of unit size 200 MW or higher, which should 
have been in successful operation for a period not less than one (1) year reckoned as on the 
date of submission of application. 
 
OR 
 
Option-II  
The bidder should have manufactured & supplied IBR compliant Cold Drawn Seamless 
Tubes of Stainless-Steel to any thermal power plant of unit size 200 MW or higher during 
the last five (5) years reckoned as on the date of submission of application. 
C) Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying Requirements: 
  For Option-I:  
1. Order Copy evidencing Manufacturer & Supplier of Boiler of unit size 200 MW or 
higher to at least one Thermal Power Plant + execution proof. 
2. Evidence regarding satisfactory operation of the Boilers / Unit from the Owner. 
 
 For Option-II: 
1. Latest annual report or NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO 
certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / IBR 
certificate/MDCC or any other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer as 
per QR. 
2. The PO (issued within last five years reckoned as on the date of submission of 
application.) in support of award and completion certificate/copies of invoice to 
establish successful execution as per QR. 
3. IBR certificate. 
D) Other documents to be submitted: 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as 
stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the applicant for enlistment: 
 
1. Three POs of highest executed values of similar work during last five years from the date 
of application (PO date should not be more than 5 years old on the date of the 
application) along with copy of invoice / completion certificate from the concerned 
buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against POs. 
2. Audited balance sheet including profit and loss statement for the previous three completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application. 
In case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not  available, certification 
of financial statements from a practicing chartered accountant may be submitted. In 
case, Applicant is not able to submit the certificate from practicing chartered  
Accountant certifying its financial parameters for the preceding financial year, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall 
be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further a Certificate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the application  format 
documents stating that the financial results of the company are under audit as on the 
date of Application and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
3. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
E Quality Plan: Applicable, as per attachment 
 Note-1 Similar works means: Supply of Seamless SS Boiler Tubes to any Thermal Power 
plant. 
 Note-2 The Executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works 
executed/supplied against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs 
as on date of application. Where PO value is composite (i.e . including taxes, etc) 
the applicant shall give item wise breakup of Composite PO value mentioning 
Basic value, Taxes, etc. 
NTPC LTD 
Vendor Development Cell, CPG-1, Raipur 
 
Sub: Qualifying requirement for Centralized Enlistment of Vendors for Seamless SS Boiler 
Tubes (without shot peened). 
A) MEG Details   
 1.0 MEG NO. 48MEG-05 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Enlistment of Vendors for Seamless SS Boiler 
Tubes (without shot peened). 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CPG-1/VDC 
B) Technical specifications of Seamless Stainless-steel Boiler Tubes (without shot peened) shall be as 
follows:  
1) Material Code: -  
2) Description of the Item: - Cold drawn seamless SS boiler tubes  
3) Size (OD X THK) in MM: ----------MM X -----------MM (tolerance as per IBR/ASME)  
4) Material: - SA213 TP347H / SA213 TP304H / SA-213UNSS30432 / SUPER 304H. (without 
shot peened)  
(Material composition to comply as per latest ASME code)  
5) Designed Pressure: --------KG/CM2 & Designed Temperature: ----- Degree Centigrade 
6) Required Length:  4 to 7 meters. 
7) Certification Required -  
i) IBR certificate in Form III-B to be submitted by vendor. 
ii) All Test Certificates  
8) Test Required: - As per QP  
9) Identification Marking: -Each tube to be marked by punching / stencilling as follows:  
NTPC P.O No. / Size (OD X THK) /Material / Heat No. / Vendor Name / NTPC Material Code 
Punching / Stencilling at both ends and at equal intervals of 1 meter.  
10) End Capping: - All tubes to be cleaned and tube ends to be provided with push fit metallic 
/ Plastic end caps.  
11) Colour Coding on each tube at every meter. 
12) Marking: - NTPC Inspection stamps on each tube and each seal to be encircled with 
white paint for quick identification at site.  
13) End condition of Tube: - Both end edge (V) preparation must be done as per IBR. 
14) Tubes to be suitably packed so that no damage during transportation occurs. However, 
if any damage is observed after receipt of tubes at NTPC Store, the same must be replaced 
by the vendor within 15 days of intimation without any additional cost to NTPC. 
15) Other technical details of tube as per specific site requirement shall be given in 
Tender documents. 
 
 
 

