 
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC 
BASIS 
1 CEG No.   BMD-24 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Residual Life Assessment Study of Boiler & Auxiliaries of One Unit of 200 
MW or above 
3 Responsibility Centre CPC 
4 Brief scope of work Residual Life Assessment Study of Boiler & Auxiliaries of One Unit Of 
200 MW or above 
1. The necessary condition assessment/component damage assessment 
& studies to evaluate the remaining life of different componentsof 
1.1 Boiler Namely - Boiler Drum, Water Walls & Extended Water 
Walls, Platen Water Walls, Economizer, Low Temperature SH, 
Platen SH, Final SH, Re-Heater, Steam Cooled Walls, Extended 
Steam Cooled Walls, Steam Cooled Spacer Tubes, Screen Tubes, 
Ceiling SH, Water Wall Ring Header / Mud Drum, & Water-Wall 
Outlet Headers, Economizer - Inlet, Intermediate & Outlet Headers, 
Economizer Link Pipes To Boiler Drum, Water Platen Inlet Headers 
& Outlet Headers, Steam Cooled Wall Headers, LTSH Inlet & Outlet 
Header, Platen SH Inlet & Outlet Headers, Final SH Inlet & Outlet 
Headers, De-SH, Link Headers From LTSH Outlet Header To Platen 
SH Inlet Header and Platen SH Outlet Header to Final SH Inlet 
Header, De-SH In Cold Reheat Pipe Line Critical Piping (From 
Boiler End to Turbine End)-Main Steam (Left and Right), Hot Reheat 
(Left & Right), Cold Reheat (Left &Right), Feed Water Piping 
from BFP to Economizer Inlet and Aux.PRDS. 
1.2 Oxide scale thickness measurement of all tubes of all Super-
heater and Re-heater coils.(Approx 1500 points) perunit. 
2 Inspect the De- super heater spray nozzles and liner in the LTSH outlet 
header and in cold reheatlines. 
3 This includes all necessary and appropriate NDT techniques, 
in-situ tests, lab tests and software requirements for the 
abovepurpose. 
4 Components life expectancy with sufficient supporting 
documentation / analysis reports, etc and recommendations 
regarding subsequent inspections and any change in operating 
conditions. The summary shall be furnished in the 
attachedPerforma. 
5 Necessary component damage assessment for all critical 
components showing evidence of damage like crack, breakage etc. 
the component damage assessment shall necessarily include detailed 
analysis of the crack initiation, growth and recommendations 
regarding run / repair / replacedecision. 
6 Furnishing of detailed repair procedure for all components 
recommended forrepair. 
7 Furnishing of detailed report on the studies and remaining life 
of different components including test data, analysis and 
recommendations in minimum 12sets. 
8 The location and no. of samples / tests and the nature of tests / 
inspection which will be done for conducting various condition 
assessment / component damage assessment studies and for 
prediction of life of different components shall be to the owner's 
approval. The nos. and locations of sampling / testing shall be 
appropriately chosen to be able to make reliable assessment. Bidder 
shall give all such details before start of studies. Any additional 
sampling / testing / inspection if required by the owner shall also be 
carried out by the bidder at no extracost. 
9 The bidder shall provide and deploy all the requisite 
consumables , tools and tackles, instruments & diagnostic 
equipment / software required for comprehensive condition 
assessment, component damage assessment and for evaluation of 
remaining life. 
It is not the intent of the specification to specify each and every item of work 
and any other job though notspecifically mentioned but required for successful 
completion of the work shall be included in bidder's scope. 
DETAILS OF SPECIFICATIONS & PROECEDURES FOR 200 MW 
BOILER (TECHNICAL BID) 
In Technical bid the bidder should agree with the scope of work and it 
should contain a write up on the methodology of RLA studies on major 
components indicated in scope of work shall be provided with method of 
calculation of residual life. The codes and practices followed for conducting 
RLA studies may also be furnished. The bidder is requested to submit the 
write up on the method of testing with testing instruments / equipment 
details and standard codes for the following tests. 
1. Visualinspection 
2. DPT/LPI 
3. Fluorescent DPT 
4. MPI 
5. Fluorescent MPI 
6. Ultrasonic test inspection 
7. Radiography 
8. Wall thicknessmeasurement 
9. Insitu Micro Structure (Replica)test 
10. Dimensional measurement for creepdeformation 
11. Boroscopic test 
12. Oxide scale thick. measurement. 
13. Drum depositanalysis 
14. Internal depositanalysis. 
15. External depositanalysis 
16. Check for hydrogendamage 
17. Metallurgical analysis and creep rupline test 
18. Header internalinspection 
19. Header ligament crackinginspection 
20. Micro etching of weldments 
21. Any other test required for completion of the RLAstudy 
22. Post exposure laboratorytests. 
Summary of the total tests to be con ducted for boiler & auxiliary, piping may 
also be submitted.We are enclosing a list of components and sub- components 
and various RLA tests in Annexure - I for reference. 
The list of the tests are only indicative & not a comprehensive one, 
therefore any other tests required to complete the RLA studies on any of the 
component as per IBR requirement shall be indicated& executed by the 
bidder 
 
NAME OF WORK: RESIDUAL LIFE ASSESSMENT STUDY OF 
BOILER & AUXILIARIES OF TWO UNITS OF 200 MW BOILER  
 
Thefollowingisalistoftestswhichareonlyindicativeandnotexhaustiveoneands
hallbetakenasareference only. Bidder shall provide a detailed list of test for 
each component required to complete the RLA studies as per scope ofwork. 
1. BOILER DRUM 
1. visualinspection 
2. Internalchecking. 
3. Drum depositanalysis. 
4. NDT on circular seam & long seam welds and fillet welds 
indrum. 
5. Replica 
2. WATER WALL 
1. Visualinspection 
2. Dimensional measurement in burner and soot blowerzone. 
3. Hopper zone tubes. 
 
4. Sampling for depositanalysis. 
5. External depositanalysis. 
6. NDT on attachment welds (Burner zone and water impound 
hopper seal plate scalloped barweld.) 
7. Random checks for hydrogendamage. 
8. Rear water wall NDT checks on forged reducer. 
3. WATER PLATENS 
1. NDT on stub joints (inlet header and outlet header) at 
accessiblelocation. 
2. Sampling for internal depositanalysis. 
4.ECONOMIZER 
1. visualinspection. 
2. Dimensional measurement (inlet & outletheader). 
3. NDT checks on stub joints (inlet & outletheader) 
4. Sample tube at inlet section for checking internalcondition. 
5. LOW TEMPERATURESUPER-HEATER 
1. Visualinspection. 
2. Dimensional measurement. 
3. Attachment welds (NDT at accessiblelocation). 
4. Hanger tube saddle weld checks at accessiblelocations. 
5. Tube sample for metallurgicalanalysis. 
6. PLATENSUPER-HEATER 
1. Visualinspection. 
2. Dimensionalmeasurement. 
3. External depositanalysis. 
4. Dissimilar weld checks (LPI &MPI). 
5. Dissimilar weld piece sample foranalysis. 
6. LPI on roof seal band weld. 
7. Oxide scale thick.Measurement 
7. FINAL SUPER-HEATER 
1. Visual inspection. 
2. Dimensionalmeasurement. 
3. Sample tube at outlet section for metallurgical analysis and 
creep rupturetest. 
4. NDT on roof seal band attachmentweld. 
5. Oxide scale thicknessMeasurement. 
8. SCREENTUBES 
8.1. Visualinspection. 
8.2. Dimensionalmeasurement. 
9. STEAM COOLED WALL & EXTENDED SIDE WATER WALL & 
EXTENDED STEAM COOLEDWALL 
9.1 Visualinspection. 
9.2 NDT on attachmentweld. 
10. RE-HEATER 
10.1 Visualinspection 
10.2 Dimensionalmeasurement. 
10.3 NDT on roof seal band attachmentweld. 
10.4 Sample tube at out let section for 
metallurgical analysis and creep 
rupture test. 
NDT on dissimilar weldjoints. 
10.5 Squeezed bend sample & dissimilar weld spoolpiece. 
10.6 Oxide scale thick measurement. 
11. WATER WALL RING HEADER &WATER WALL 
STEAMHEADERS 
11.1. NDT checks on stubjoints. 
11.2. Inspection header internal surface through fibroscope 
12. WATER PLATENHEADERS 
12.1.    Internal inspection by fibro scope through stubhole. 
12.2. Ligament crack inspection in the stub hole 
13.      LTSH INLET HEADER 
13.1. NDT on welds. 
13.2. Dimensionalmeasurements. 
13.3. Ligament crack inspection in the stub hole and internal 
inspection through fibroscope. 
13.4. Replica 
13.5. Hardness 
14. LTSH OUTLET HEADER 
14.1. NDT on welds. 
14.2. Dimensionalmeasurements. 
14.3. Hardnessmeasurements 
14.4. Replica. 
14.5. Ligament crack inspection in the stub hole and internal 
inspection through fibroscope. 
15. DE SUPER-HEATERHEADER 
15.1. Visual 
15.2. NDT checks onwelds. 
15.3. Nozzle and linerinspection. 
15.4. Replica (outlet headeronly) 
15.5. Header internal inspection using fibroscope 
15.6. Header support checking. 
15.7. Ligament crack inspection in the stub hole 
15.8. Hardness 
 
16. PLATEN SUPER-HEATER HEADERS 
16.1. NDT checks on welds and in stub joints atrandom 
16.2. Dimensional measurements. 
16.3. Hardnessmeasurements. 
16.4. Replica (outlet & inlet headersonly). 
16.5. Header internal inspection using fibroscope 
16.6. Header supportchecking. 
16.7. Ligament crack inspection in the stub hole 
17. FINAL SUPER-HEATER AND RE HEATERHEADERS 
17.1. Visualinspection 
17.2. NDT checks on welds and in stub joints atrandom 
17.3. Dimensionalmeasurements. 
17.4. Hardnesstest. 
17.5. Replica (outlet & inlet headersonly). 
17.6. Header internal inspection using fibroscope 
17.7. Header support checking. 
17.8. Ligament crack inspection in the stub hole 
18. PIPING 
(a) Main steampiping 
(b) Hot reheatpiping 
(c) Cold reheatpiping 
(d) PRDSpiping 
(e) Feed waterpiping 
(f) Soot blower systempiping 
18.1. Visualinspection. 
18.2. Cold walk down and hot walkdown. 
18.3. Check onhangers. 
18.4. NDT checks on specific weldjoints. 
18.5. Replicationandhardnesstestinbendsandinspecificbuttweld
locationsonhightemppipingonly. 
18.6. Vent and drain lines (headers andpipes). 
 
The vendor should have following persons: 
(i)- One metallurgist deployed for in-situ metallography, 
(ii)- Two persons having at least Ultrasonic Testing (UT) Level 2      
certification by ISNT / ASNT 
(iii)- At least 01 (One) Level 2 certified person in the individual NDT 
method. 
(iv) All the equipment to be deployed should have valid calibration from 
approved NABL lab. 
Other details of works shall be given in tender document. 
2.  Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
(i) The Applicant must be recognized by Central Boiler Board as Well-
Known ‘Remnant Life Assessment’ Organisation. 
(ii) The applicant should have executed the  Residual Life Assessment (RLA) 
of at least two numbers of boiler (Unit) with rating 200 MW or above during 
last five years from the date of application. 
Note- The RLA of Two Units/Boilers should be executed in one or multiple 
Work Orders. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support  of 
meeting QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement and other certificate/documents as mentioned 
elsewhere 
 
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC 
BASIS 
CEG No. BMD-24 
6 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are required to 
be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
i . Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during 
previous five years from the date of ap plication and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the concerned client in 
support of successful execution of work against each of the POs to 
besubmitted. 
i i . Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In 
case,  the audited documents are not ready/available, then certified copy of 
financial statement by a registered practicing chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
i i i . NSIC / SSI / MSME registrationcertificate 
i v . PF and GST/Service Tax registrationcertificate 
v . Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants 
to submit. 
7 NOTES: 1.0  Similar work means: Residual Life Assessment (RLA) of boiler (Unit) with 
rating 200 MW or above 
2.0 Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-up of composite
PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Executed value of contracts shall 
include escalation amount because of price adjustment, if any, in thecontract. 
 