 
 
1 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
CC-OS, EOC Noida 
 
 
Subject: Qualifying requirement & other details for vendor enlistment – supply of Boiler 
Straight Tubes (Alloy Steel other than SS). 
 
A) Details of MEG (Material Enlistment Group) 
MEG No 48MEG-02 
MEG Description Boiler Straight Tubes (Alloy Steel other than SS) 
Responsibility Centre NTPC ER-II Head Quarters, Bhubaneshwar  
B) Technical Criteria of QR:  
Option-I:  
a) The applicant should be a manufacturer of Boilers (Steam Generator) and should have 
supplied Boiler (Steam Generator) to any 2 (Two) different Thermal power Plants each 
of Unit Capacity of 200 MW or, higher capacity and which are in commercial operation 
for at least two years prior to the date of application and are in satisfactory operation. 
 
                                                                  AND 
 
b) Should have either In-house Tube manufacturing & testing facilities for Alloy steel tubes 
or, should have Sourcing tie -up agreement with well-known tube maker approved by 
Central Boiler Board, India for manufacturing of Cold Drawn Seamless Tubes of Alloy 
Steel material. 
 
Option-II 
a) The applicant should be an approved  well known tube maker of Central Boiler Board, 
India for manufacturing of Cold Drawn Seamless Tubes of Alloy Steel material 
 
                                                                  AND 
 
b) The applicant should have executed orders for supply of at least 2000 meters of Cold 
Drawn Seamless Straight Alloy steel Tubes in one order during last 5 years to any 
Thermal Power plan t having unit capacity of 200 MW or, higher capacity or to any 
Boiler manufacturer manufacturing and supplying boilers for a power plant of 200 MW 
or higher unit capacity prior to the date of application for enlistment 
 
                                                                 AND 
 
c) The applicant must have the following in-house  manufacturing & testing facilities: 
 
I. Manufacturing Facilities: 
i. Draw bench 
ii. Heat Treatment facilities 
iii. Tube Straightening machine 
 
II. Testing Facilities: 
i. Continuous feed ultrasonic flaw detector 
 
 
2 
 
 
ii. Spectrometer for material composition testing 
iii. Portable XRF Alloy analyzer (PMI Machine) 
iv. Universal testing Machine for tensile & elongation test 
v. Rockwell and Vickers’s Hardness Tester 
vi. Ultrasonic Flaw detector 
vii. Eddy Current Test facility for flaw detection 
viii. Hydraulic test arrangement for carrying out Hydraulic Test upto 450 KSC 
ix. Flattening Test 
x. Flaring Test 
 
C) Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements: 
 
For Option-I: 
i. Order Copy evidencing Manufacture & Supply of Boilers of 200 MW or higher capacity 
to two different Thermal Power Plants. 
ii. Evidence regarding Date of commissioning of the Boilers / Power Plant 
iii. Evidence regarding satisfactory operation of the Boilers / Unit from the Owner 
iv. Evidence of the details of in -house manufacturing and testing facilities for Cold Drawn 
Seamless Alloy steel Boiler Tubes as mentioned in Option-II c or, Evidence of the details of 
manufacturing and testing facilities for Cold Drawn Seamless Alloy steel Boiler Tu bes as 
mentioned in Option-II c from the vendor with whom Tie-up agreement for supply is there. 
In case of multiple suppliers with whom agreement is there, credentials of all to be 
submitted. 
 
For Option-II: 
i. Copy of Valid certificate (as on the date of application) from Central Boiler Board as well-
known tube maker for Alloy Steel seamless Tubes 
 
ii. Copies of Purchase Orders for supply of Cold Drawn Seamless Straight Alloy Steel Tubes  
to any Thermal Power plant having unit capacity of 200 MW or, higher capaci ty during 
last 5 years prior to the date of application  
 
                                                                or 
 
Copies of Purchase Orders for supply of Cold Drawn Seamless Straight Alloy Steel Tubes  
to any Boiler manufacturer  manufacturing and supplying boilers for a power plant of  200 
MW or, higher unit capacity during last 5 years prior to the date of application 
 
iii. Proof of execution of the Purchase order as mentioned in (ii) above like excise invoice, GR 
details and invoice copy. 
 
iv. Evidence of the details of manufacturing facilities for Cold Drawn Seamless Alloy steel 
Boiler Tubes as mentioned above. 
 
v. Evidence of the details of testing facilities for Cold Drawn Seamless Alloy steel Boiler Tubes 
as mentioned above. 
 
Applicant should mention in his letter pad under which Option they are applying for enlistment. 
 
To be declared as qualified, an applicant has to meet all the requirements either of 
option-1 or those of option-2. 
 
 
3 
 
 
D) Other documents to be submitted: 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated 
above, following documents are required to be submitted by the applicant for enlistment:  
 
1. Acceptance of specification format (see page 4 of this document) or, any comment 
thereof 
 
2. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years 
from the date of application. Copy of Invoice (s) / Completion certificate from the 
concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against t he POs to be 
submitted. 
 
3. Audited balance sheet including profit and loss statement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. 
 
In case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification 
of financial statements from a practicing chartered account may be submitted. In case, 
Applicant is not able to submit the certificate from  practicing chartered Account 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further a  Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the application format documents  stating that the financia l results 
of the company are under audit as on the date of Application and the Certificate from 
the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available 
  
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
E) Note-1 Definition of Similar work (Refer to Point 2 of Row D above) :-  Supply of Boiler Straight 
Tubes for Thermal Power plants 
 Note-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works / orders executed / 
supplied against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed PO, as on the date of 
application). Where PO value is composite (i.e. including taxes etc.), the applicant should 
submit item wise break up of composite PO value mentioning basic PO Value, Tax de tails 
etc. 
 
  
 
 
4 
 
 
A) Details of MEG  
MEG No 48MEG-02 
MEG Description Boiler Straight Tubes (Alloy Steel other than SS) 
Responsibility Centre ERII HQ- Bhubaneswar 
B) Technical Specifications 
The Intended Technical specifications of Seamless Alloy Steel Boiler Tubes shall be as follows: 
 
1) Material Code          :- 
2) Description of the Item:-  
                 COLD DRAWN SEAMLESS ALLOY STEEL BOILER TUBES AS PER SA213 GR.___ 
3) Size (OD X THK) in MM    :-_____ MM X ____ MM (tolerance as per IBR/ASME)  
4) Material  :- SA 213 Grade _____ 
 
(Alloy Tube material composition to comply as per latest ASME code) 
 
5) Required Length           :- 4-7 metre 
6) Certification Required  -i) Form III-B to be submitted by vendor 
                                              ii) All Test Certificates 
7) Test Required         :- 
a) Dimension      :- Yes 
b) Material Composition By Spectrometer and PMI machine as per NTPC QP. 
c) Hardness      : -Yes, as per Relevant Standard. 
d) Tensile Test & Elongation: - Yes, as per SA 213 
e) Ultrasonic Test             : - Yes, as per NTPC QP. 
f) Hydraulic Test              : - Required at _____ Ksc. 
g) Flattening Test              : - Yes, as per SA 213 
h) Flaring Test                   : - Yes, as per SA 213 
 
8) Heat Treatment: - To be carried out to comply properties as per SA 213 and IBR 
requirements and charts to be submitted to NTPC Inspector for review. 
 
9) Identification Marking:-Each tube to be marked by stenciling as follows: 
 
NTPC P.O No. / Size (OD X THK) /Material / Heat No. / Vendor Name / NTPC Material Code  
 
Stenciling at both ends and at equal intervals of 1 metre. 
 
10) End Caps: - All tubes to be cleaned and tube ends to be provided with push fit metallic end 
caps. 
 
11) Colour Coding on each tube at every meter. 
 
12) Marking:- NTPC Inspection stamps on each tube and each seal to be encircled with white 
paint for quick identification at site. 
 
13) Suitable bundle of tubes to be tied together with metallic strips and covered with HDPE 
covers. The tube bundle to be placed in wooden crates. 
 
