Page 1 of 6 
NTPC LIMITED 
(
A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
SH
ARED SERVICES CENTRE – CMHQ-RANCHI 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT. 
NO
TICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
F
OR 
PACKAGE: Construction of a New Building for Coal Oil Water Laboratories at 
Langatu of NTPC Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining Project 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Mode of Tendering: Open Tender with QR on GePNIC Portal 
 N
IT / Bidding Document No. – SSC-C&M-PBCMP-400052580                    Date: 11.11.2025 
I
. NTPC invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-I :
Tec
hno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from Eligible Bidders on Open
tender & Domestic Competitive Bidding basis for afore-mentioned package as per
Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.
I
I. Brief Scope of Work:  The  brief scope of work for Construction of a New Building for
Coal Oil Water Laboratories at Langatu includes:
C
ivil items like-excavation, back -filling, PCC, RCC, Brick  works, structural, 
reinforcement,  aluminium, plumbing, painting, tiles, sheeting, road, paver  block, 
sanitary etc, Electrical items & Mechanical items as per the drawings, 
specifications, BOQ and as per the direction of EIC. 
D
etailed Scope shall be as per Technical Specification / Terms of Reference. 
I
II. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Own Resources.
I
V. Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the
bidding document, which are available on-line at NTPC e-procurement portal (Gepnic
portal): https://eprocurentpc.nic.in as per the following schedule:
Tender Reference No. 
Refer NTPC e -procurement 
portal (Gepnic portal): 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
Date of issue of NIT 
Downloading of Bidding Document 
Pre-Bid Conference date 
Last date for receipt of queries on Bidding 
Documents from Bidders (No Queries from 
Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of 
Queries) 
Last date & Time for submission of online bids 
Date and Time for opening of Techno-
Commercial bids 
Opening of Price Bids 
Page 2 of 6 
Bid Security (EMD) -Exemption not allowed. INR 02 Lakh 
Bid Security (EMD) submission mode Online/ Offline 
Estimated Cost of Work Rs 2,47,76,793.17 
(excluding GST) 
Pre-Bid Conference Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
Minimum Percentage towards compliance of 
safety aspect  
2% of the cumulative total of 
Service Portion of the 
Contract. 
Contract Price Adjustment As per SCC clause 6 
Evaluation criteria Package wise Evaluation 
Splitting of Quantity Not Applicable 
Note: :Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) for updated bidding schedule of the Tender . For any 
corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
V. Qualif
ying Requirements for Bidders:
Qual
ifying Requirements is enclosed at Annexure- I to NIT
VI. B
eing a works contract, EMD exemption shall not be allowed for the subject
work. It may be noted that due to system constraint in GePNIC portal against
attribute “EMD through BG/ST or EMD Exemption Allowed” mentioned as YES
for facilitating to the bidder for providing Bank Guarantee towards EMD and
bidders are requested, not to upload EMD exemption document.
The Bid Security shall, at the Bidder's option, be in the form of e-BG, Electronic Fund
Transfer (EFT)/ irrevocable Letter of Credit or a bank guarantee from any of the
banks specified in the Bid Data Sheets or an Insurance Surety Bond from an Insurer
as per guidelines issued by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of
India (IRDAI), on the NTPC e-tender portal on or before bid submission closing date
and time, failing which, their online bid shall be rejected by the Employer as being
non-responsive.
"ANY
 BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER
AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE
BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND
TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -
PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR
IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.”
VI
I. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the
subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no
bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.
VI
II. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may
be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be required to register on the website.
The tender is invited under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves
on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate
(DSC) Class -3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders
should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e-
Page 3 of 6  
tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class -3 key from agencies 
authorized by Govt. of India. The e- Tender Portal also has the user manuals with 
detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted 
ONLY at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
IX. Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is 
considered to be qualified.  
 
X. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ 
group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
 
XI. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
XII. Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may 
apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
XIII. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with  an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply  to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
XIV. Address for Communication/Location of Bid opening  
 
Manager(C&M)/ DGM (C&M)  
NTPC Limited SSC – Coal Mining, NML,  
Ram Keshi Heights, Plot No. 123,   
Old A.G. Colony, Kadru,   
Distt : Ranchi -834002 
Mob.: 9861136329 / 9650992083 
E-mail: monalishaparida@ntpc.co.in / dheerendramishra@ntpc.co.in 
 
XV. Registered Office: 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area,  
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI00796 
 
XVI. User/Indenter Detail:   
  
Page 4 of 6  
 At NTPC, Pakri Barwadih Sikri :   
  
Sh. Subhasis Bhaumik,  
                DGM (Civil. Const.),  
Mob: 9435720497  
Email: subhasisbhaumik@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
  
Page 5 of 6  
Annexure- I to NIT 
 
Qualifying Requirements 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated here under: 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
 
The bidder should have executed “Civil works related to Building Works (excluding 
standalone toilet construction) including Steel Structure works like column / beam / 
roof truss etc.” within the preceding last seven (07) years reckoned as on the date of 
Techno commercial Bid Opening with either of the following: 
 
a) Single order of value not less than Rs. 198 Lakhs, 
    or 
b) Two orders of value not less than Rs. 124 Lakhs Each 
           or 
c) Three orders of value not less than Rs. 99 Lakh Each 
 
 
NOTES for clause 1.0 above: 
 
i) The word “executed” means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria including 
value as mentioned in above QR within the preceding seven (07) years as on date of 
techno commercial bid opening even if the contract has been started earlier and 
/ or is not completed/closed. 
ii) In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered 
acceptable.  
iii) Reference work executed by a bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered  
provided the certificate issued by a main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority 
specifying the scope and value of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements. 
iv) For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount without tax 
only shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide 
the break –up of basic value and taxes. 
 
 
 
2.0     Financial Criteria: 
 
2.1  (a)     The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial  years 
as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than INR  165 
Lakhs. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirement as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the l ast day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter 
of Undertaking from the Hol ding Company supported by the Holding Company’s 
Page 6 of 6  
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for execution of the Contract by the 
Bidder in case of award. 
 
  
2.2     In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
  
i.     Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its 
Holding Company. 
ii.     A Certificate from the CEO / CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the consolidated Annual 
financial statements of the Holding Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, bidder is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
certificate would be required from the CEO / CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno – commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters 
is not available. 
  
Notes for clause 2.0 
  
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserve. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of 
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted 
or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
iii. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed 
to them as per Companies Act of India. 
  
 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 11-Nov-2025 05:01 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Coal Mining
Tender Reference
Number NTPC/SSC - Coal Mining(Ranchi)/9900312671
Tender ID 2025_NTPC_101489_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Both(Online/Offline) Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online
Bankers
S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Offline S.No Instrument Type
1 DD
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 EMD .pdf EMD details
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf Tender
Document
3 Finance .xls Price Bid
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To NTPC
Limited
EMD Payable At Ranchi
BG Required No
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
 
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Construction of a New Building for Coal Oil Water Laboratories at Langatu of NTPC Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining
Project
Work Description Construction of a New Building for Coal Oil Water Laboratories at Langatu of NTPC Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining
Project on Open Tender basis
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Tender Value in ₹ 2,47,76,793 Product Category Civil
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 540 
Location NTPC Pakri Barwadih
Coal Mining Project
Pincode 825311 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Coal Mining Head
Quarters Kadru Ranchi
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 11-Nov-2025 05:00 PM Bid Opening Date 03-Dec-2025 05:05 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
11-Nov-2025 05:00 PM Document Download / Sale End
Date
02-Dec-2025 05:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 11-Nov-2025 05:00 PM Clarification End Date 13-Nov-2025 05:00 PM 

Bid Submission Start Date 11-Nov-2025 05:00 PM Bid Submission End Date 02-Dec-2025 05:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf Notice Inviting Tender 369.28
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tender Documents Biddoc.pdf Tender Documents 12198.90
2 BOQ BOQ_104697.xls Price Bid 456.00
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Expected Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the
PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT
requirements of the Tender. - [ MLC Declaration for Services]
Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules - [ SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC - [ FRAUD PREVENTION] Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC - [
BANNING POLICY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
5.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per tender documents on Restrictions
on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India -
[ LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE]
Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements - [ QR COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents - [ NO DEVIATION
CERTIFICATION] Yes Yes
 
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name Manager (CnM)
Address Coal Mining Head Quarters Coal Mining HQ, Ram Keshi Heights, Kadru, 834002
 