Sl No Document Section 
Reference Existing Clause Query / Clarification sought NTPC Reply (Read As / 
Clarification)
1
Section: General 
Platform Features
Point #2, Page # 241
ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 users with 
at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access solution must include a minimum of 05 
pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from Day 1. These 8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE 
users.
One App segment can manage multiple applications. 10 segments can cator organizations 
with 100s of applications acceesible by up to 30K users. Therefore we recommend to 
modify the clause as below:
ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 
users with 10 App segments scalable up to 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote 
Access solution must include a minimum of 05 pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from 
Day 1. These 8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE users.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) SL. No 1
2
Section: A- General 
Platform Features
Point #7, Page # 241
The proposed solution must have CSA STAR, SOC 2, SOC2-type2/SOC3/CIS certifications.
SOC 2 has versions like SOC2 type l and type 2. SOC2 type 2 is more comprehensive, 
detailed in comparison to type l. So, please do modifications as below for better security 
controls and clarifications to participants:
The proposed solution must have CSA STAR, SOC 2/SOC2-type2/SOC3/CIS certifications.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) SL. No 2
3
Section: B- Secure 
Web Gateway
Point #3, Page # 241
The proposed solution should be able to provide URL Filtering for at least 80+ URL categories and must 
have capability to enforce granular advance activity control as mentioned below:
a. Webmail Category: Upload, Download, & Attach
b. File Sharing / Cloudstorage category: Upload, Download, & Post.
c. Collaboration Category: Upload, Download, & Post
Activity controls with respect to webmail and collaboration categories are varied from 
vendor to vendor. Please consider below changes for wider participation:
The proposed solution should be able to provide URL Filtering for at least 80+ URL 
categories and must have capability to enforce granular advance activity control as 
mentioned below:
a. Webmail Category: Upload/Download/Attach/Allow/Block
b. File Sharing / Cloudstorage category: Upload, Download/Post.
c. Collaboration Category: Upload/Download/Post/Allow/Block
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 4
4
Section: l- DIGITAL 
EXPEREINCE 
MANAGEMENT
Point #1, Page # 243
The Solution must have DEM (Digital Experience Management) License for atleast 05 SaaS 
Apps/Probes to find out issues related with Applications, Hop-by-Hop Latency and Network path 
tracing including hop by hop analysis of all internal and external hops on every probe with ISP/AS 
Number & Geo details for each hop, User Device Stats (CPU, Memory, Network, Storage) and 
effectively reduce mean time to identify root cause of experience/performance issues and help in 
resolution.
The Licenses for atleast 1000 Users should be provided. There should be a provision for providing and 
revoking the DEM Licenses to any users in the same or a seperate tenant / group.
DEM solution analyse system CPU and Memory, not storage because storage utilization 
does not impact user experience related to application access. Please accept the change 
requested below:
The Solution must have DEM (Digital Experience Management) License for atleast 05 SaaS 
Apps/Probes to find out issues related with Applications, Hop-by-Hop Latency and 
Network path tracing including hop by hop analysis of all internal and external hops on 
every probe with ISP/AS Number & Geo details for each hop, User Device Stats (CPU, 
Memory/storage, Process/ Network) and effectively reduce mean time to identify root 
cause of experience/performance issues and help in resolution.
The Licenses for atleast 1000 Users should be provided. There should be a provision for 
providing and revoking the DEM Licenses to any users in the same or a seperate tenant/ 
group.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl.No 5
5
Section: H- Zero 
Trust Network 
Access (For Internal 
Private Apps)
Additional Point Recommendation:
The Zero Trust solution must provide the access of the applications to the user even if 
ZTNA cloud is not reachable. User must be able to authenticate in case of unavailability of 
internet or ZTNA cloud. Bidder must factor any hardware or software require to achieve 
this functionality from day-1 as per recommendation of OEM. ZTNA must have complete 
DR workflow and architecture to achieve this functionalities from day-1.
For ZTNA authentication and access of critical applications during any disruptive event or 
emergency scenarios, it is critical for solution to function without any dependency on 
ZTNA cloud. This also ensure the business continuity plan for critical application acces 
through on-premises broker for ZTNA.
NO CHANGE
6
Section: I- 
Authentication
Point #1, Page #243
The solution must be able to integrate with any SAML 2.0 IdP (ex. Azure AD, Okta and ADFS etc.) and 
on-premise AD with ADFS without any inbound exposure to AD from Internet. Please confirm that NTPC will provide AD and ADFS licenses.
NO CHANGE. Bidder has 
to provide items as per 
BoQ and Scope of Work
7
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #3 page 
#244
The solution must allow end users to self-register and manage authentication devices through a 
secure portal, including lost device recovery.
The solution must allow end users to self-register and manage authentication devices 
through a secure portal, including lost device recovery. NO CHANGE
8
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #4 page 
#244
The IdP solution must have policy enforcement based on Granular per-user/group policies and 
Conditional access rules (e.g., block login if outside country) .
The IdP solution must have policy enforcement based on Granular per-user/group policies 
and Conditional access to applications (e.g., disable access if outside country) . NO CHANGE
9
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #5 page 
#244
The IdP solution must support integrations with SAML, OAuth, OIDC support, LDAP, Active Directory, 
Azure AD, REST APIs for custom apps and SIEM integration. It must also have risk-based silent 
authentication support.
Please modify the clause for wider participation as below:
The IdP solution must support integrations with SAML, SCIM, Active Directory Federation 
Service, Azure AD and SIEM integration.
NO CHANGE
10
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #6 page 
#244
The IdP solution admin console must have real-time authentication logs, Policy configurations, and 
Risk analytics dashboard.
IdP audit logs should cover wide range of activitties like configuration changes, newly 
created users, deleted users, authentication setting adjustment etc. So, kindly update the 
clause as below:
The IdP solution admin console must have real-time authentication logs, Policy 
configurations, configuration change/ Risk analytics, authentication setting etc.
NO CHANGE
11
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #7 page 
#244
The IdP solution mut have native self-service MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication) setup / reset and 
MFA must have options including soft tokens, mobile-based tokens, SMS-based tokens, Push 
Notifications etc
There are many more ways for users to authenticate using MFA, like TOTP, Fasy Identity 
Online (FIDO) etc. Please modify the clause inlcuding those options: The IdP solution mut 
have native self-service MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication) setup / reset and MFA must 
have options including FIDO/soft tokens, TOTP/mobile-based tokens, SMS-based 
tokens/Push Notifications etc
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl.No 12
12
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #8 page 
#244
The IdP/MFA solution must be able to enforce access from only trusted endpoints on the basis of 
MDM presence/device id etc.
There are many other ways to identify trusted endpoints like Device fingertpring, AV 
presence, EDR presence, Process check, device disk encryption etc. Request you to kindly 
include them and consider below updated clause:
The IdP/MFA solution must be able to enforce access from only trusted endpoints on the 
basis of MDM presence/device id/process check/disk encryption etc.
NO CHANGE
13
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #9 page 
#244
The solution must support enforcing access policies based on the of the user’s device trust, even if the 
device is unmanaged.
For Device trust, agent installed on the user system is mandatory. Once agent is installed 
device is no longer an unmanaged device, rather it becomes a managed device. Please 
modify the clause as below:
The solution must support enforcing access policies based on the of the user’s device 
trust.
NO CHANGE
14
Section: L- IdP 
(Identity Provider) 
For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #10 
page #244
The solution must provide offline authentication options, allowing users to verify access without an 
active internet connection.
Since the IdP solution is a SaaS-based cloud-native platform (as per #1 of IdP 
requirement), users cannot access the IdP URL when offline. Please clarify how offline 
authentication is expected to work in this scenario, as this flow is applicable only when 
authenticating to devices. Or delete the clause.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 13
GEM/2025/B/6835803      Corrigendum No - 1 ( Clarification)
15
Section: Scope of 
Supply / Services
Point #5.1, Page # 
229
If any on-premise hardware at NTPC DC/DR or any other location is required to be setup for entire 
duration of the contract to meet the technical requirement, the same shall be delivered on revenue 
model basis. After expiry of the contract period of 05 years the ownership of the same shall be 
transferred to NTPC without any cost to NTPC. The insurance for the equipment ( i.e Fire, all risk and 
other insurance of Electronics item etc) at NTPC premise is required to be done by the bidder for the 
period of the contract from time to time.
In this clause, we understand the on-premise hardware is referred to purpose built 
appliance from OEM and not the commodity servers.
Request NTPC to elaborate the revenue model basis expectation. Since no OEM provide 
their solution on OPEX model.
Insurance to supplied hardware is provided from transit till delivered to NTPC data 
centres. Once the hardwares are installed at NTPC data centres devices should be covered 
under NTPC insurance instead of bidder insurance as this will only increase operational 
complexity.
Request NTPC to kindly look into the same and amend the clauses.
If any equipment/ 
Hardware / perpetual 
Licenses etc are required 
as per Technical 
requirements / Scope of 
Work, the same is in 
bidder's scope with 
ownership of the bidder 
till the currency of this 
contract. After expiry of 
the contract, ownership 
of all such equipment 
shall be transferred to 
NTPC without any extra 
cost to NTPC.
16
Section: Scope of 
Supply / Services
Point #5.1, Page # 
229
b) Special tools and Tackles
The bidder’s proposal shall include the list of tools comprising of following:
* 02 Nos of Mobile Wi Fi Notebook Computer (Metal Body/ Prof.Win OS/ i5 / 16GB RAM/01TB SSD / 
Latest Version MS Office Pro) with integrated Camera
* Handheld Wireless Tablet / Terminal at least 10” – Running Operating Systems 02Nos - Apple IOS, 01 
Nos Latest Android and 01 Nos - Microsoft Windows
* Report Printing Device - A3 & A4 Size Laser Jet Business Report Printing Device with Duplex - 
Print/Copy Scan function for generating and putting up reports along with 01 lot of Consumable 
Toners each year with 05 years of warranty and Support
Kindly confirm if bidder has to supply all the components mentioned in this clause, as 
there is no line items mentioned in commercial bid format / BOQ
All equipment, tools & 
tackles, licenses etc (for 
testing and report 
generation etc.) required 
to be supplied under the 
contract or as per Scope 
of Work or to meet the 
functional ot technical 
requirements should be 
included in the offer.
17
Page 227
Delivery, 
Installation & 
Configuration 
schedule:
Delivery, Installation & Configuration schedule:
The delivery of licenses for the first year, along with the installation and configuration of the 
completesolution, must be completed within four (4) months from the date of issuance of the 
Purchase Order.Renewals of licenses for the subsequent subscription years shall be carried out prior to 
the expiration ofeach preceding license year.
Please extens the completion timeline by 6 months.The delivery of licenses for the first 
year, along with the installation and configuration of the completesolution, must be 
completed within four (6) months from the date of issuance of the Purchase 
Order.Renewals of licenses for the subsequent subscription years shall be carried out prior 
to the expiration ofeach preceding license year.
NO CHANGE
18
236, 14 Payment 
terms
License Subscription Charges
(Refer to Sl. No (A): Security Service Edge (SSE) and ZTNA SaaS Licenses in the BoQ for the SSE Package)
a) First Year License Subscription Charges
100% of the license subscription charges for the first year shall be released upon successful completion 
of the following milestones:
 Acceptance and successful handover of the SSE solution to NTPC.
 Handover of the requisite number of subscribed licenses for the first year (as specified in the BoQ) to 
NTPC. These details must be verifiable on the Licenses page of the SSE dashboard / confirmation from 
the OEM
 Completion of a successful inspection of the implemented solution.
b) License/Subscription Charges for Subsequent Years (2nd to 5th Year)
100% of the license/subscription charges for each subsequent year (2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th) shall be 
released after:
 Renewal and handover of the requisite number of subscribed licenses (as per BoQ) to NTPC for the 
respective subscription year.
 The license details must be available on the Licenses page of the SSE dashboard or confirmation 
from the OEM, showing a validity of at least one year from the date of expiry of the previous year 
subscription.
The conditions for project acceptance and successful handover for release of 100 % first 
year license subscription charges payment when bidder fulfills the conditions stated under 
clause 8.3 page 231. Kindly confirm our understanding.
Requesting for relexation in payment terms as below for better cash flow:
a) First Year License Subscription Charges shall be released as follows:
i. 70% Payment – Acceptance and successful handover of the SSE solution to NTP.
ii. 15% Payment – Payable upon successful deployment of 50% of the SSE solution and 
successful inspection by NTPC.
iii. Balance 15% Payment – Payable upon completion of deployment of the remaining 50% 
of the SSE solution, along with successful inspection, acceptance, and handover of the 
fully implemented solution to NTPC.
Please confirm that payment term is yearly advance for respective years on completion 
milestone defined in the RFP.
We request NTPC to change the payment terms to Yearly in advance for 1st & 2nd to 5th 
Year.
We request that 100% of the license subscription charges for the first year should be 
payable on delivery.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 16
19
236,14,4 Annual True-Up for Additional Licenses
NTPC may conduct an annual true-up for additional licenses of the required solution(s) as per the RFP, 
in multiples of 200 units, if the consumption of licenses exceeds 10% of the subscribed quantity in the 
previous license year. The minimum threshold for triggering a true-up is 10%, unless the OEM's default 
allowance is higher, in which case that higher threshold will apply. The true-up will only apply if the 
excess license usage continues for more than 60 consecutive days.
Payment for additional licenses will be calculated on a prospective basis after the annual true-up, in 
multiples of 200 units. For example, if the subscribed license count in the previous year was 20,000 
and the actual usage is up to 22,000, no additional licenses will be required. However, if the usage 
reaches 22,100, the total number of licenses will be trued-up to 22,200.
All payments, including those for additional licenses in the first and subsequent years, shall be made in 
accordance with the agreed Payment Terms.
In the event of license/subscription usage exceeding the subscribed count, the OEM or its 
representative shall notify the NTPC Engineering-in-Charge at least 30 days in advance, to enable 
timely corrective measures and manage any temporary license spikes.
ALL qualified OEM should agree to this point. This points is not under authorization of SI.
WE request NTPC that any increase from the committed quantity to be done only with 
mutual consent and revised market prevailing rates. Also these licenses cost should be 
paid as and when they are deployed in the system.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 19
20
point #8.3 page 
#231
Acceptance / Handover Criteria –
Date of Start of Licenses (Day 01) – Following should be completed as a prerequisite to be declared as 
Day 01 of Start of Licenses / Subscription)
. All services (SWG, IPSec, ZTNA, DEM, RBI etc.) are ready to be used by NTPC and agents / SWG 
services on at least 10000 NTPC users / Guests have been onboard onto the SSE platform by the 
bidder . At least 10 IPSec / Tunnel Connections have been enabled / configured by the Bidder from at 
least 05 NTPC Locations / DC DR / Sites. (Router / Firewall Hardware shall be provided by NTPC at NTPC 
Premises. Configuration assistance shall be provided by the Bidder)
. Although Bidder may provide initial installation / configuration / users onboard assistance from DC 
Noida / DR Hyderabad, however, If the bidder’s installation team is required to visit to complete or 
achieve the installation schedule, the bidder may have to arrange travel, boarding and lodging 
arrangements for their project personnels at sites. NTPC may provide guesthouse accommodation at 
few locations subject to availability.
. An Undertaking by the OEM that requisite number of irrevocable Licenses has been enabled on the 
OEM platform for the required period.
With respect to point #8.3 on page #231 and point #6.1 on page #230, our understanding 
is that for 10000 users all license validity should be 5 years and 4 months (5 years validity 
from Day 01 and 4 months license during implementation of all licenses for 10,000 users).
Please confirm if this understanding is correct.
This clause is Acceptance 
/ Handover Criteria. - 
Refer BoQ and 
Specificatios for Licenses 
& validity Requirements 
Also - REFER 
Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 17
21
236, 14.2 Payment 
Terms
Implementation & Management and Training Charges:Each 20% of the Implementation, Management 
& Training Charges shall be released annually at the end of each Calendar Year (along with 
4th,8th,12th,16th & 20th Qtr) on certification by Engineer-in-Charge
We request NTPC to change the payment terms as follows:-
Implementation & Management and Training Charges: 100% on completiom of 
implemenation & training rescpectively.
FMS Service and SaaS Applications Charges: Quaterly in advance or monthly in advance as 
manpower will be paid every month.
Request you to revise the payment terms for Implementation, Management & Training 
charges to 'shall be released quarterly at the end of each quarter.
Request NTPC not to retain this amount for work which will be done at the beginning of 
the project.
We request that the implementation cost and traning cost should be paid 100% post 
completion of the respective milestones.
NO CHANGE
22
General Platform 
Features
Page No 241, Point 
No 2
The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing requirements:
1) SWG, CASB, Threat Protection, DLP, Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users from Day 1.
2) ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 users with 
at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access solution must include a minimum of 05 
pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from Day 1. These 8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE 
users.
We require clarification regarding the scaling and licensing of the ZTNA/Secure Remote 
Access Connectors, specifically for the provision of 100 Application Segments and 8,000 
concurrent users.
The current requirement specifies a minimum of 05 pairs (05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors 
from Day 1.
Justification for Increased Scalability:
Given the high number of application segments, potential geographical distribution of 
resources (DC, DR, and multiple cloud environments), and the need to guarantee low 
latency for 8,000 users, a minimum of five pairs may be insufficient to ensure optimal load 
balancing and operational resilience across all environments.
We request to change the clause as
"The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing requirements:
1) SWG, CASB, Threat Protection, DLP, Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users 
from Day 1.
2) ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 
8000 users with at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA/Secure Remote Access solution 
must include a minimum of 05 pairs (05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors at deployment, and the 
license must be inherently scalable to a minimum of 10 pairs (10 + 10 in HA) without 
requiring an increase in the base license cost.
Justification for above change:
Given the high number of application segments, potential geographical distribution of 
resources (DC, DR, and multiple cloud environments), and the need to guarantee low 
latency for 8,000 users, a minimum of five pairs may be insufficient to ensure optimal load 
balancing and operational resilience across all environments.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) SL. No 1
23
Section: General 
Platform Features
Point #2, Page # 241
ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 users with 
at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access solution must include a minimum of 05 
pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from Day 1. These 8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE 
users.
One App segment can manage multiple applications. 10 segments can cator organizations 
with 100s of applications acceesible by up to 30K users. Therefore we recommend to 
modify the clause as below:
ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 
users with 10 App segments scalable up to 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote 
Access solution must include a minimum of 05 pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from 
Day 1. These 8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE users.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) SL. No 1
24
B.Secure Web 
Gateway
Page No 241, Point 
No 1
The solution must operate in a full-proxy architecture (hide the user IP address with SSE vendor IP 
address to external world) and should perform 100% SSL inspection at scale.
Following Modes of SWG should be available in the System
a. User Agent - The solution must have single light weight user agent and supported on Windows, 
MAC, Linux, ChromeOS, iOS, and Android.
b. Encypted Phase 1 and Encrypted Phase 2 IPSec Tunnel- NTPC will create / configure the web 
gateway firewall or router to send web traffic to the cloud SWG through an IPsec tunnel for policy 
compliance and security. It should not require an agent on the client device.
This requiement is for unauthenticated users and is in addition to the total users requirement of 
20,000 Licenses (i.e 18000 users + 2000 Guest users)
Licenses for 100+100 nos of such simultaneous IPSec Tunnels of 400 Mbps each OR if Licenses are 
based on Bandwidth then the solution should be licensed for atleast agreegated 05 Gbps of Traffic 
handling capacity originated from this forwarding mechanism. This agreggation shall be summation of 
raffic from all sites at any given point of time. NTPC will provide Router and/or Thrid party Firewall at 
such locations. If any additional on-site harware is required for establising the same or meeting the 
functionality, then the bidder may consider the same in their offer for 50 such locations. Considering 
02 ISP at each Locations.
The solution must provide protection for users connecting via IPSEC tunnels even if the agent is not 
installed on the devices like laptops/desktops/Mobile devices/IOT/OT devices/Guest users.
c. Explicit Over Cloud SWG IPsec - Install PAC files on browsers that route to the Cloud SWG.
The proposed solution must provide secure and controlled internet access to the guest users who 
would connect to NTPC guest Wi-Fi network for internet browsing. The traffic of guest users must be 
controlled without any dependency of an endpoint agent or any changes on the user endpoints.
Using the Solution in the hybrid mode i.e any of the modes can be deployed simultaneously 
depending upon the site, security and other requirements of NTPC.
Need clarification - Why 100+tunnels required for the guest users? There should not be 
any bandwidth limitation on total aggregated bandwidth why only 5 Gbps or 400 Mbps 
mentioned. Tunel can be IPSEC and GRE based on the performance factors.
Number of IPSec Tunnels 
are a per NTPC network 
architecture and 
requirements. 
Also REFER Corrigendum 
- 1 (Amendment)
25
D.Threat Protection
Page No 242, Point 
No 4
The sandbox must perform detonation of archives, executables (on Server/endpoint/mobile 
platforms), MS Office files, and other risky file types. The detailed analysis reports detailing the attack 
lifecycle and event killchain, malware behavior, and payload intent and mapping with MITRE ATT&CK 
framework shall be available for log analysis. The sandbox action shall allow administrator to define 
actions like monitor/allow/block.
You have mentioned "The sandbox must perform detonation of archives, executables (on 
servers/endpoints/mobile platforms),MS Office files, and other risky file types. but in an 
SSE solution, threat sandboxing for files and URLs is executed within the vendor's secure 
data centers, not on customer-side servers or endpoints."
Please clarify the statement.
NO CHANGE - 
As per sepecifications 
sandboxing is required 
in the SSE cloud infra 
with capbility of 
detonating archives, 
executables, MS Office 
Files and other risky files 
in cloud sandbox.
26
H.Zero Trust 
Network Access 
(For Internal Private 
Apps)
Page No 242, Point 
No 3
SSE solution is intended to bring uniformity in policies for allowing access to applications/servers 
hosted anywhere including NTPC DC/DR, Cloud IaaS or PaaS. The Bidder shall include licenses for at 
least a minimum of 05 pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Application Connector. All hardware / VMs along with 
all required softwares, applications etc ( in HA) required at DC Noida & DR Hyd is in the Scope of 
bidder. VMs required for Iaas cloud deployments shall be provided by NTPC.
Need clarification - This is also same as point no 2 page No. 242, Given the high number of 
application segments, potential geographical distribution of resources (DC, DR, and 
multiple cloud environments), and the need to guarantee low latency for 8,000 users, a 
minimum of five pairs may be insufficient to ensure optimal load balancing and 
operational resilience across all environments.To ensure optimal performance,low 
latency, and high availability for 8,000 users across 100 application segments, the ZTNA 
solution will require more than the five pairs of connectors specified.
Please change as requested below "SSE solution is intended to bring uniformity in policies 
for allowing access to applications/servers hosted anywhere including NTPC DC/DR, Cloud 
IaaS or PaaS. The Bidder shall include licenses for minimum of 05 pairs (05 + 05 in HA) of 
Connectors at deployment, and the license must be inherently scalable to a minimum of 
10 pairs (10 + 10 in HA) without requiring an increase in the base license cost.. All 
hardware / VMs along with all required softwares, applications etc ( in HA) required at DC 
Noida & DR Hyd is in the Scope of bidder. VMs required for Iaas cloud deployments shall 
be provided by NTPC."
NO CHANGE
27
H.Zero Trust 
Network Access 
(For Internal Private 
Apps)
Page No 242, Point 
No 9
"The ZTNA Solution must provide access to any TCP & UDP based Internal Applications including 
Browser based and Thick Client Applications using the single SSE Agent installed on User Machines
The ZTNA solution must have both server-to-client and client-to-server applications. SMB File share, 
AD GPO update, Pushing patch form server to user machine must be supported. If any additional 
Licenses / functionality is required to be provided, the same should be included for all ZTNA users in 
the offer."
Need Clarification -
Please help to know at how many locations you have these applications (which need to 
initiate connection towards user/s)?
Number of DC / DR, 
Cloud IaaS or PasS 
Locations where 
application ZTNA 
connectors will be 
deployed (05 Location in 
HA Mode) has to be 
considered.
28
H.Zero Trust 
Network Access 
(For Internal Private 
Apps)
Page No 242, Point 
No 12
The ZTNA solution must also allow the NTPC to provide third-parties (vendors, contractors, suppliers), 
IT administrators, and remote employees controlled access to its servers and applications via a 
clientless remote desktop gateway that enables end-users to securely connect to servers, or desktops 
using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Secure Shell (SSH), or Virtual Network Computing (VNC) from 
the end user’s modern browser ( Remote Browser Isolation or Enterprise Browser) without installing 
ZTNA endpoint agent or any browser plugins.
The ZTNA solution uses its own browser-based terminal client to enable the required 
access, making it independent of third-party isolation or browser technologies.Since the 
entire session rendering and policy enforcement occurs on the secure ZTNA gateway,there 
is no technical need for a Enterprise Browser (EB) or Remote Browser Isolation (RBI) to 
fulfill the requirement of secure clientless access to internal applications.
Please clarify the statement.
There will be a limited number of users who may need SSH / RDP type of access over web. 
With current clause it will be considered for all 8000 ZTNA users which will impact the 
overall budget heavily. As Enterprise Browser / RBI has been asked for only 1000 users 
hence we request to match it with the same quanitity and modify the clause as per 
following:
The ZTNA solution must also allow the NTPC to provide third-parties (vendors, 
contractors, suppliers), IT administrators, and remote employees controlled access to its 
servers and applications via a clientless remote desktop gateway that enables end-users 
to securely connect to servers, or desktops using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Secure 
Shell (SSH), or Virtual Network Computing (VNC) from the end user’s modern browser ( 
Remote Browser Isolation or Enterprise Browser) without installing ZTNA endpoint agent 
or any browser plugins for Minimum of 1000 Users.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 10
29 Additional 
Recommendation
There should not be any limitation in number of policy rules for the entire solution for 
features like SWG,CASB,CFW,DNS Security.Please mention it clearly as there are vendors 
who are providing limited set of policies in their solution for the requested ask.
Hence requesting to add the same so that NTPC must not face this challange after 
procuring of any solution.
NO CHANGE
30 Additional 
Recommendation
The proposed solution (including all components) should have direct OEM 24x7x365 
support with following Initial Response Time SLA's: P1 (Urgent) <= 30 Min P2 (High) <= 2 
hour P3 (Normal) <= 8 hour P4 (Low) <= 24 hour "
NO CHANGE
31 Additional 
Recommendation
Solution must provide secure access to users for private applications hosted in Data 
Centre through On-prem Broker/Exchange and application connector/gateway without 
making tunnel outside of NTPC environment. On-Premise user traffic towards internal 
applications must be through Zero Trust On-Premise broker and it must not connect OEM 
cloud to access their intranet applications
NO CHANGE
32
Period Extension 
Clause for Licenses, 
Subscriptions, and 
FMS Services
14.6
NTPC reserves the right to extend the initial contract period of five (5) years by an additional one (1) 
year, under the same terms and conditions. For the extended period beyond the fifth year, the 
maximum permissible increase in the rates of the respective BoQ items shall be limited to the 
weighted average percentage increase applied over the initial five-year period.
Over a five-year period, market conditions may change significantly. Extending the 
contract on the same commercial and legal terms may not reflect the prevailing market 
realities at the time of extension, potentially leading to financial unviability for the service 
provider hence we request NTPC to mutually discuss and agree upon the terms and 
commercials at the time of extension or renewal.
NO CHANGE
33
14.9 Minimum / 
Maximum Price 
Component:
238
14.9 Minimum / Maximum Price Component: We request the removal of the mandatory requirement under clause 14.9.This fixed 
percentage limits flexibility in proposal structuring and may not align with actual service 
needs or industry practices.
NO CHANGE
34
Clause No -Section 
C point no 1 Page-
242
The solution should support both Inline CASB and out of band CASB API for minimum 10 SaaS Apps 
capabilities from day 1. In addition, the solution must have SSPM (SaaS Security Posture Management) 
for minimum of 10 SaaS apps to protect misconfigurations , and compliances with security 
standards.The solution should support real-time
visibility sanctioned and unsanctioned applications with dynamic risk score based on Cloud Security 
Alliance Standards. The solution must be able to report the security
compliances and certifications achieved by these apps..
Change Requested -
The solution should support both Inline CASB and out of band CASB API for minimum 10 
SaaS Apps capabilities from day 1.The solution should support real-time visibility 
sanctioned and unsanctioned applications with dynamic risk score based on Cloud 
Security Alliance Standards. The solution must be able to report the security
compliances and certifications achieved by these apps.
SSPM is a dedicated product in itself - if the intent is SSPM also then NTPC should add 
specs of full blown SSPM product which is also SAAS delivered, however if the keyword 
SSPM is removed from the specs the features can be delivered by SSE itself.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 6
35
Clause No -Section 
E point no 11 Page-
242
The solution should support sending alerts to admins whenever there is confidential data match Requesting to make OR for admin and user, violation email goes to User and DLP event is 
generated for Admins.
Changes Requested
The solution should support sending alerts to admins / User whenever there is 
confidential data match
The solution should support sending email alerts to User whenever there is confidential 
data match and create an Event for Admin's review in the Solution Dashboard.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 7
36 Clause No -Section I 
Page-243
The solution must have Remote Browser Isolation (RBI) / Enterprise Browser feature for 1000 licensed 
users which enables NTPC to have protection from any risky/uncategorized Web traffic which blocks 
any real data transfer between Application and users.
RBI should be used for all users for critical and vulnerable internet applications. Solution 
supports RBI for all Internet traffic as well without any latency and more Security.
Changes Requested -
The solution must have Remote Browser Isolation (RBI) / Enterprise Browser feature for 
All licensed users which enables NTPC to have protection from any risky/uncategorized 
Web traffic which blocks any real data transfer between Application and users.
NO CHANGE
37
Section: General 
Platform Features
Point #6, Page # 241
The solution must have single light weight user agent and supported on Windows, MAC, Linux, 
ChromeOS, iOS, and Android. This Agent must be tamperproof and the User must not be able to 
disable or uninstall it even if the User has local system Admin Rights. The system should have provision 
for allowing user to uninstall / disabling the agent from the dashboard itself or may provide / generate 
a one time key or single use password specific to the user for allowing user to disable/uninstall the 
agent.
The solution must have single light weight user agent and supported on Windows, MAC, 
Linux, ChromeOS, iOS, and Android. This Agent must be tamperproof and the User must 
not be able to disable agent service. The system should have provision for allowing user to 
uninstall / disabling the agent from the dashboard itself or may provide / generate a one 
time key or single use password specific to the user for allowing user to disable/uninstall 
the agent.
If there is Admin rights on the endpoint then it is practically not possible to prevent 
modifications to agent - with root access and admin rights all modifications are possible.
NO CHANGE
38 Clause No -2 Page-
224 The bidder has to integrate its SSE with the existing ITSM tool deployed at NTPC. Please share the ITSM solution that is deployed at NTPC. Currently used ITSM toll 
is Service Now
39 Clause No -11.3 1. 
Page 233 Ensure scalability and integration with existing infrastructure (e.g., Identity Providers, SIEM, SDWAN) Kindly provide the existing vendor solutions of Identity provider, SIEM and SDWAN.
Current vendors are 
Microsoft, Mcafee and 
Cisco
40 Clause No -11.3 4. 
Page233 Deploy endpoint agents (if applicable) with support of the system integrator. Please let us know whether any agent deployment tool or centralized agent push option is 
available in NTPC to deploy the agents in all the machines as per the RFP scope.
NTPC is using AD / 
SCCM, which may be 
used for agents update 
and also Agent 
installation / 
configuration support 
may be provided 
remotely from NTPC 
DC/DR.however, If the 
bidder’s installation 
team is required to visit 
to complete or achieve 
the installation 
schedule, the bidder 
may have to arrange 
travel, boarding and 
lodging arrangements 
41 Clause No -12.10 
Page-235
For network equipment not supplied by the bidder, the FMS team shall coordinate with respective 
team/group for deploying the latest upgrades, updates, patches and hotfixes as and when released by 
respective OEMs.
This scope is on high level and need broader level understanding. Please specify the 
complete list of equipments that will be under the scope of the bidder for this 
coordination work.
Required Information /  
Details to be shared with  
the FMS team as per  
requirement from time 
to time.
42 Clause No 14.9- 
Page-238
Installation and Training component must not exceed 2.5% of the total bid price. If exceeds, then they 
will deduct and pay and release the rest of the amount at the end of the 5 year contract period.
Installation and Training component must not exceed 5% of the total bid price. If exceeds, 
then they will deduct and pay and release the rest of the amount at the end of the 5 year 
contract period.
Request to make Installation and Training component 5% of the total bid price
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 18
43
Section: Scope of 
Work: 2.0 page 
#224
Bidder will work with Central NOC / SOC team and based on their inputs, necessary changes, patches, 
bug fixing shall be done by the bidder
Based on inputs NTPC inputs the changes to be done during the deployment phase in the 
proposed solution components only, and Bidder is not responsible for the NTPC 
equipment's and end user devices etc. kindly confirm.
necessary changes, 
patches, bug fixing etc as 
required from time to 
time during the curency 
of the contract shall be 
required to be carried 
out by the Bidder in 
solution. Equipments. 
Softwares provided 
under this contract.
44
Section: Scope of 
Work: 2.0 page 
#224
If required, NTPC may ask for Proof of Concept (POC) to demonstrate the technical compliance for the 
specifications mentioned prior to evaluation of bids / opening of price bid. When asked, the bidder 
shall demonstrate the capability through POC within 7 days of receiving the request from NTPC, failing 
which, the solution proposed by the bidder shall be deemed as technically non-compliant
Kindly share the details in which condition POC will be applicable and exempted, and 
Assuming POC / Demonstrate the capability would be remotely only. REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 20
45
Section: Scope of 
Work: 2.0 page 
#224
Bidder shall install, configure and provision the SSE & ZTNA solution across all the endpoints as per the 
technical specifications & functional requirements on a hybrid infrastructure as made available by 
NTPC to the bidder. All installations of the SSE to be carried out by the bidder from NTPC Data Centres 
(Centrally / Remotely)
Implementation and configuration of remote access to NTPC offices applications, desktop 
PCs/Workstations/Servers over RDP, File servers, standalone, legacy and web applications
Please suggest for SSE & ZTNA solution rollout on the NTPC all endpoints, NTCP will 
provide the required rollout environment, tools, Bandwidth and connectivity etc. as 
needed.
Also in case of any required patching, configuration and fixes etc. to be done in the 
existing NTPC environment / endpoints the same will be done by the NTCP or Their 
partners team only please confirm.
ZTNA to private or intranet applications is used to access the servers in DC or colocated DC 
or applications hosted on cloud. This clause has desktops as well. Please elaborate the use 
case of accessing the desktops. Also if it is the requirement, then how many locations are 
there where this type of desktop access needed.
NO CHANGE
46 Section: Scope of 
Work: 2.0 page The Bidder shall deploy ALL resources, who should be in their OWN PAYROLL. Request you to allow Partner resource in place on Bidder Payroll NO CHANGE
47
Section: Scope of 
Work: 2.0 page 
#224
The bidder has to integrate its SSE with the existing ITSM tool deployed at NTPC. All configuration in 
the SSE platform, and the ITSM tool required shall be done to the bidder. Please share the integration scope and ITSM tools OEMs and Version details Currently used ITSM toll 
is Service Now
48
Section: Scope of 
Work: 2.0 page 
#226
OTHER TERMS & 
CONDITIONS FOR 
FMS Resources
The bidder shall provide the resources accordingly to run the above-specified schedule of services. In 
case of any resource on leave, adequate arrangement shall be provided so that the services are 
available as per schedule.
Penalty for Non-availability of FMS resource:
In case the non-availability of any FMS resource services without the permission of the EIC or without 
suitable replacement being provided by the bidder, penalty shall be applicable per day per resource 
which shall be calculated on prorate basis.
During the on-prem resource on leave or Emergence, we can provide the support services 
remotely and backup it hope it ok to NTPC.
Please relax the Penalty for FSM and will provide the Remote support to provide the 
required support NO CHANGE
49
Section: Scope of 
Work: 4.1 page 
#228
Site Preparation
Rack space in NTPC data center and DR Center.
 For on-Premises Infra / Servers connectivity, Interfaces in Network switches, Routers and other 
equipment to connect the solution components to NTPC internal network, DMZ and Internet links. 
However, any other network related requirements for achieving the functionality of the solution are in 
the scope of the bidder.
Since the Rack space, Power, Cooling etc. is provided by NTCP and I assuming the request 
Network ports etc. for the proposed equipment's will be provided by NTCP and only 
bidder to bring the Cables etc. for the proposed equipment's.
Also Hand and Feet support for the deployed equipment's will be provided by the NTPC 
team only as needed.
Pleases confirm.
NO CHANGE
50
Section: OTHER 
TERMS AND 
CONDITIONS page 
#244
Annual True-Up for 
Additional Licenses
NTPC may conduct an annual true-up for additional licenses of the required solution(s) as per the RFP, 
in multiples of 200 units, if the consumption of licenses exceeds 10% of the subscribed quantity in the 
previous license year. The minimum threshold for triggering a true-up is 10%, unless the OEM's default 
allowance is higher, in which case that higher threshold will apply. The true-up will only apply if the 
excess license usage continues for more than 60 consecutive days.
Will that True-Up in multiples of 200 units applicable only on the Secure Web 
Gateway(SWG) Cloud Bases SaaS Services single components only and no other 
components part of True-up scope. And rest others will be increase as per change 
management process
In any other components also part of scope true-up then share the each components wise 
qtys details
licenses clause is 
applicable for all SaaS 
based Licenses. 
Also REFER Corrigendum 
- 1 (Amendment) SL. No 
19
51
Clause - A-General 
Platform Features- 
2 Page-241
The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing requirements:
1) SWG, CASB, Threat Protection, DLP, Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users from Day 1.
2) ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 users with 
at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access solution must include a minimum of 05 
pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from Day 1. These 8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE 
users.
Request to modify it to ask for a dedicated separate management tenant for 8000 ZTNA 
users or remove the clause (These 8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE users). 
With the current clause, it will add-up to the total count (20K + 8K = 26K users) and will 
impact the overall budget. We request to modify the clause as per any of the below 
request (Option 1 or 2):
Option 1: The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing 
requirements:
1) SWG, CASB, Threat Protection, DLP, Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users 
from Day 1.
2) ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 
8000 users with at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access solution 
must include a minimum of 05 pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from Day 1. These 
8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE users and must be provided on a separate 
dedicated management tenant.
OR
Option 2: The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing 
requirements:
1) SWG, CASB, Threat Protection, DLP, Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users 
from Day 1.
2) ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 
8000 users with at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access solution 
must include a minimum of 05 pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from Day 1. These 
8000 Users are in addition to the above SSE users.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) SL. No 1
52
Clause - B-Secure 
Web Gateway - 2 
Page-241
ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 users with 
at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access solution must include a minimum of 05 
pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of Connectors from Day 1. These 800
As NTPC is looking for cloud-native SSE, we request removing the requirement for routing 
by backhauling traffic through NTPC’s egress IPs, as this increases the risk of attack surface 
as NTPC IP's will be directly visible over the dark web defeating the purpose of SSE Zero 
Trust Architecture as well as impact the end user experience with backhaulling. Using 
cloud-provided dedicated egress IPs by SSE OEM's for NTPC it ensures a fully NTPC's Data 
center is completely dark and hidden from the outside world and doesn't impact end user 
experience. Hence we request to modify the clause as:
The Secure Web Gateway must provide an option to redirect specific Government/Other 
Internet Websites via dedicated NTPC Egress IPs provided by SSE OEM provide Dedicated 
Egress IPv4 addresses in atleast 02 of the SSE Cloud Data Centres. Any software / 
hardware / license required must be included in pairs for DC and DR.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 8
53
Clause - C - CASB 
(Cloud Access 
Security Broker) 
Services - 1 Page-
242
The solution should support both Inline CASB and out of band CASB API for minimum 10 SaaS Apps 
capabilities from day 1. In addition, the solution must have SSPM (SaaS Security Posture Management) 
for minimum of 10 SaaS apps to protect misconfigurations, and compliances with security 
standards.The solution should support real-time visibility sanctioned and unsanctioned applications 
with dynamic risk score based on Cloud Security Alliance Standards. The solution must be able to 
report the security compliances and certifications achieved by these apps..
We believe all of these feature licenses (Inline CASB, CASB API for minimim 10 Apps, and 
SSPM for minimum of 10 SaaS Apps) are required from day 1 to minimize unified SaaS 
risk. Does NTPC need Advance DLP (OCR, EDM, fingerprinting etc) and Advance Threat 
Protection (Sandbox for Zero Day Protection) capabilities for CASB APIs to protect data at 
rest traffic to ensure unified security for both data-in-motion and data-at-rest? Pls clarify 
and confirm.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 6
54
Clause - E- Web DLP 
(Data Loss 
Prevention) - 2 Page-
242
The solution must be able identify and protect pre-defined file types based on true file type detection 
for DLP solution.
Request to add advance DLP capabilites to ensure advance data exfiltration risk are well 
covered in this prestigeous proect. Hence, we request to modify the clause as:
The solution must be able identify and protect pre-defined file types based on true file 
type detection for DLP solution and must have EDM, fingerprinting and OCR capabilities 
from day 1.
NO CHANGE
55
Clause - H- Zero 
Trust Network 
Access (For Internal 
Private Apps) - 11 
Page-243
The solution must have the capability to authenticate users and enrol/log using their personal email 
addresses for 3rd party users or non-domain joined machines. SSE admin user must be able to send 
invite links to the end user’s personal email to on-board the users with end user agent for authorized 
application accesses.
Request to modify the clause as per folllowing as it's part of the solution and onboarding 
can be completed via IDP or enforcing RBI or Enterprise Browser redirection:
The solution must have the capability to authenticate users and enrol/log using their 
personal email addresses for 3rd party users or non-domain joined machines. The solution 
SSE admin user must be able to send invite links to the end user’s personal email to on-
board the users with end user agent for authorized application accesses.
REFER Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) Sl. No 9
56 10 The solution must allow to add / ingest IOCs to the SSE system.
Does NTPC require the capability to ingest IOCs and block based on file hashes (e.g., MD5, 
SHA1, SHA256) as recommended by Cert-in and other regulatory bodies? Kindly confirm 
as it is not elaborated in the RFP.
NO CHANGE
57 Scope of 
Supply/Service SOW Point 8.3 , page 11, Acceptance/ Handover Criteria, Point No.3-
This clause is a very Grey Area -If the Bidder's installation team is required to visit NTPC 
locations to complete installation we would need a specific number of sites , with number 
of endpoints so as to arrive at the cost of travel boarding and lodging and the number of 
personnel and mandays required to address this specific issue. We would request you 
specify the states, the number of locations and endpoints at such locations where the 
bidder would need to travel so that we can make an intelligent estimate of the costing of 
the same.
Refer Carification at SL. 
No 40 above. 
Also REFER Corrigendum 
- 1 (Amendment) Sl. No 
17
58 Scope of 
Supply/Service SOW Point 12.4, page 13, Service Desk and Service Management - Please Clarify if the ITSM application would be NTPC inhouse or bidder has to use their 
own ITSM application.
NTPC is already using 
Service Now ITSM Tools.
59 Clause -2 Page 241
The proposed sandbox solution must be natively in-line, enabling to quarantine files and inspect 
before delivery to the user.
Please change the wording as "The proposed sandbox solution must be natively in-line 
and inspect before delivery to the user." NO CHANGE
60
Clause -4 Page 241
The sandbox must perform detonation of archives, executables (on Server/endpoint/mobile 
platforms), MS Office files, and other risky file types. The detailed analysis reports detailing the attack 
lifecycle and event killchain, malware behavior, and payload intent and mapping with MITRE ATT&CK 
framework shall be available for log analysis. The sandbox action shall allow administrator to define 
actions like monitor/allow/block.
Request you to remove this point as Sandboxing In-line will block the risky content 
NO CHANGE - 
Also refer Clarification as 
per Sl. No 25 Above
61 Clause No -Section I 
Page-243
The solution must have Remote Browser Isolation (RBI) / Enterprise Browser feature for 1000 licensed 
users which enables NTPC to have protection from any risky/uncategorized Web traffic which blocks 
any real data transfer between Application and users.
Please change the clause as "The solution must have  Remote Browser Isolation (RBI) / 
Enterprise Browser feature for all licensed users which enables NTPC to have protection 
from any risky/uncategorized Web traffic which blocks any real data transfer between 
Application and users without extra cost"
NO CHANGE
62
Section: B- Secure 
Web Gateway
Point #3, Page # 241
The Solution must have DEM (Digital Experience Management) License for atleast 05 SaaS 
Apps/Probes to find out issues related with Applications, Hop-by-Hop Latency and Network path 
tracing including hop by hop analysis of all internal and external hops on every probe with ISP/AS 
Number & Geo details for each hop, User Device Stats (CPU, Memory, Network, Storage) and 
effectively reduce mean time to identify root cause of experience/performance issues and help in 
resolution. The Licenses for atleast 1000 Users should be provided. There should be a provision for 
providing and revoking the DEM Licenses to any users in the same or a seperate tenant / group.
Requesting to remove DEM as this terminology is coined by gartner and this has nothing 
to do with either SWG/DLP/Threat protection/SSE. or change the wording as "Solution 
should support Service-side telemetry such as application transactions visibility, 
processing times, responsiveness metrics, including bandwidth-related insights
Client-side telemetry such as user device CPU, memory, storage, network utilization, Wi-Fi 
signal quality, and ISP/network latency."
the solution to meet the 
technnical / Services 
requirements as per 
Specs and Scope of 
Work even if the the 
services are called by 
some other technical 
name.
63
Clause -1 -G - 
Advanced DNS 
Security Page 242
The Solution must proxy all internet bound DNS traffic to cloud SSE engine for inspection at scale and 
inline protection against DNS tunnels used to control malware and exfiltrate data and enforce policies 
based on DNS Record Types, Destination, Tunnels etc
Need Clarity - 
Is it fine to deploy DNS server within NTPC network (Hardware/Virtual - as prefered by 
NTPC) to have DNS security asked & same DNS server would help to do traffic engineering 
for Internal & Internet based domains (FQDN) on conditional forwarder ?
The bidder has to 
provide Solution as per 
Technical Specs and 
Scope of Work
64 Bid Eligibility Criteria Page No-4; Clause No-7.1.2 Bidder’ Query:
We understand that, the entire PO/executed value will be considered for eligibility, 
provided that the scope includes the required services viz. Cloud Secure Service Edge OR 
Secure Web Gateway OR Zero Trust Network Access ZTNA Services /VPN component and 
not the executed value of the individual components (Cloud Secure Service Edge OR 
Secure Web Gateway OR Zero Trust Network Access ZTNA Services /VPN). Kindly confirm.
Yes
65 Others Page No-4; Notes; Bidder’s Query:
We understand a project will be counted as "similar work" if the scope includes any one of 
the required services (Cloud Secure Service Edge” OR Secure Web Gateway OR Zero Trust 
Network Access ZTNA Services /VPN), even if the project includes additional other 
components. Kindly confirm.
Yes
66 Others Page No-4; Clause No-7.1.3; Bidder’s Query: For wider participation we request you to kindly accept separate PO copies against this 
clause irrespective of value of project. No 
67
47.1. Termination 
of Contract (Page 
107)
If at any time after award of Contract, the Employer shall decide to abandon or reduce the scope of 
the Works for any reason whatsoever and hence not require the whole or any part of the Works to be 
carried out by the Contractor, the Engineer - in- Charge shall give notice in writing to that effect to the 
Contractor and the Contractor except as herein under provided, shall have no claim to any payment of 
compensation or otherwise whatsoever, on account of any profit or advantage which he might have 
derived from the execution of the Works in full but which he did not derive in consequence of the said 
termination of the whole or part of the Works.
We request that in the event of termination for convenience, the Bidder, apart from the 
payments made for the work already done, also be compensated/paid for the orders 
already placed with OEMs/ Licensors, which orders cannot be cancelled with the 
OEMs/Licensors, cancellation costs, if any, levied by the OEMs/Licensors, and logistical 
and administrative expenses, if any, incurred by by the Bidder on account of such 
cancellations, which expenses shall be billed on actuals. Further, if the bidder is supplying 
any products/licenses on on opex model, then the NTPC shall pay the bidder the residual 
value of such products/ licenses.
No change 
68
47.3. Termination 
for Contractor’s 
Default (page 108)
47.3. Termination for Contractor’s Default It is requested that in the event of termination for default, the NTPC shall pay to the 
Bidder for work done successfully till the date of payment. Further, NTPC shall also pay to 
the selected Bidder for orders already placed with OEMs/Software Licensors, which Orders 
cannot be cancelled with the OEMs/Software Licensors or pay cancellation costs, if any, 
levied by the OEMs/Software Licensors, which shall be billed on actuals.
No change 
69
12. Price Basis The Contract price shall remain FIRM throughout the contract period and will be NOT be
subject to adjustment for price escalation during the performance of the Contract until
unless specified otherwise in the SCC.
The Commercial Offer shall be on a fixed price basis, inclusive of all taxes and levies. No price increases 
due to increases in customs duty, excise, tax, dollar price variation etc. will be permitted.
Bidder will quote based on the current cost price of the quoted products and current 
exchange rate. Due to the current global uncertainty concerning the proposed US tariffs, 
and the fluctuating foreign exchange rates, our quoted price will subject to change based 
on the then current exchange rate and any associated vendor price increases at the time 
of invoicing.
Not accptable
70
14.9 Minimum / 
Maximum Price 
Component:
14.9 Minimum / Maximum Price Component: We request the removal of the mandatory requirement under clause 14.9.This fixed 
percentage limits flexibility in proposal structuring and may not align with actual service 
needs or industry practices.
NO CHANGE
71
46.5-Suspension of 
Works
If for any reason other than for reasons of Contractor’s default as per GCC Sub - Clause 46.1(i) above, 
if the Contract remains suspended for a continuous period exceeding ninety ( 90) days, then the 
Employer and the Contractor shall mutually discuss and agree for a suitable course of
action regarding the recommencement/ reinstatement of the suspended work or alternatively treat 
the suspension as termination / abandonment of the Works by the Employer as per GCC Sub -
Clause 47.1 herein.
We request that in the event of termination of thr works, the Contractor, apart from the 
payments made for the work already done, will also be compensated/paid for the orders 
already placed with OEMs/Licensors, which orders cannot be cancelled with the 
OEMs/Licensors, cancellation costs, if any, levied by the OEMs/Licensors, and logistical 
and administrative expenses, if any, incurred by by the Contractor on account of such 
cancellations, which expenses shall be billed on actuals. Further, if the bidder is supplying 
any products/licenses on on opex model, then the Employer shall pay the bidder the 
residual value of such products/licenses.
No change 
72
47.1-Termination 
by the employwer
If at any time after award of Contract, the Employer shall decide to abandon or reduce the scope of 
the Works for any reason whatsoever and hence not require the whole or any part of the Works to be 
carried out by the Contractor, the Engineer - in- Charge shall give notice in writing to that effect to the 
Contractor and the Contractor except as herein under provided, shall have no claim to any payment of 
compensation or otherwise whatsoever, on account of any profit or advantage which he might have 
derived from the execution of the Works in full but which he did not derive in consequence of the said 
termination of the whole or part of the Works.
We request that a notice period of atleast 90 days be provided to the Contractor in case 
of termination for convenience or any abandonment or reduction in the scope of work. In 
the event of termination/reduction in scope, NTPC shall pay the Contractor for work done 
successfully till the date of payment. Further, NTPC shall also pay the Contractor for 
orders already placed with OEMs/Software Licensors, which Orders cannot be cancelled 
with the OEMs/Software Licensors or pay cancellation costs, if any, levied by the 
OEMs/Software Licensors. Further, if the Contractor is providing licenses or products on 
opex model or on lease, then in case of termination, NTPC will have to pay for the entire 
pre-agreed duration of the contract.
No change 
73
47.3-Termination 
for Contractor's 
Default
The entire clause We request that a notice period of atleast 30 days be provided to the Contractor to 
rectify/cure any breach. No change 
74
54.2-No claim for 
Interest or Damage
No claim for interest or damage will be entertained or be payable by the Employer in respect of any 
amount or balance which may be lying with the Employer or may become due upon 
settlement/adjudication of any dispute, difference or misunderstanding between the parties by way 
of arbitration or court proceedings or otherwise or in respect of any delay or omission on the part of 
the Employer in making intermediate or final payment or in respect of any amount/damage which 
may be claimed through arbitration or court proceedings or in any other respect whatsoever.
We request changes in the clause to indicate that the bidder will be entitled to seek 
interest or damages on any non-payment or delayed payments or any guarantee/ 
security/retention money or payments in arrears or any balance payments or any 
settlement amounts. No change 
75
1.5-Arbitration Notwithstanding any reference to the Independent Engineer or Mediation or Conciliation or 
Arbitration herein,
(a) the parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations under the Contract unless they 
otherwise agree.
(b) the Employer shall pay the Contractor any monies due to the Contractor.
Settlement of Dispute clause cannot be invoked by the Contractor, if the Contract has been mutually 
closed or ‘No Demand Certificate’ has been furnished by the Contractor or any Settlement Agreement 
has been signed between the Employer and the Contractor.
It is clarified that the Bidder will perform its obligations/services only to the extent they 
are not a subject matter of or are impacted by the arbitration.
No change 
76
Other Terms And 
Conditions Page 
number 3; 
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENTS 
FOR BIDDERS
List of documents to be submitted by vendor to Qualify this QR; Copies of Purchase order(s) / 
LOA(s)/Contract Agreement(s) and installation / commissioning/ acceptance certificate from the 
client(s) clearly indicating period of execution along with value (Excl.Taxes & duties) and scope of work 
executed as on/before date of Techno-commercial bid opening duly certified and digitally signed by 
specified TPIA/ Independent Statutory Auditor.
Request NTPC to allow invoivces raised to the client for Completion certificate or project 
closure document initiated by the bidder and countersigned by the customer;
No change 
77
GEM Bidding 
document Page 
Number 4
MSE Purchase Preference; Purchase Preference to MSE OEMs available upto
price within L1+X%
Requesting NTPC to provide clarity as to MSE preference will only be given to OEM or to 
the bidder
MSE Clause will be 
applicable as per GeM 
Bid
78
46.5-Suspension of 
Works
107
If for any reason other than for reasons of Contractor’s default as per GCC Sub - Clause 46.1(i) above, 
if the Contract remains suspended for a continuous period exceeding ninety ( 90) days, then the 
Employer and the Contractor shall mutually discuss and agree for a suitable course of action regarding 
the recommencement/ reinstatement of the suspended work or alternatively treat the suspension as 
termination / abandonment of the Works by the Employer as per GCC Sub - Clause 47.1 herein.
We request that in the event of termination of thr works, the Contractor, apart from the 
payments made for the work already done, will also be compensated/paid for the orders 
already placed with OEMs/Licensors, which orders cannot be cancelled with the 
OEMs/Licensors, cancellation costs, if any, levied by the OEMs/Licensors, and logistical 
and administrative expenses, if any, incurred by by the Contractor on account of such 
cancellations, which expenses shall be billed on actuals. Further, if the bidder is supplying 
any products/licenses on on opex model, then the Employer shall pay the bidder the 
residual value of such products/licenses.
No change 
79
47.1-Termination 
by the employwer
107
If at any time after award of Contract, the Employer shall decide to abandon or reduce the scope of 
the Works for any reason whatsoever and hence not require the whole or any part of the Works to be 
carried out by the Contractor, the Engineer - in- Charge shall give notice in writing to that effect to the 
Contractor and the Contractor except as herein under provided, shall have no claim to any payment of 
compensation or otherwise whatsoever, on account of any profit or advantage which he might have 
derived from the execution of the Works in full but which he did not derive in consequence of the said 
termination of the whole or part of the Works.
We request that a notice period of atleast 90 days be provided to the Contractor in case 
of termination for convenience or any abandonment or reduction in the scope of work. In 
the event of termination/reduction in scope, NTPC shall pay the Contractor for work done 
successfully till the date of payment. Further, NTPC shall also pay the Contractor for 
orders already placed with OEMs/Software Licensors, which Orders cannot be cancelled 
with the OEMs/Software Licensors or pay cancellation costs, if any, levied by the 
OEMs/Software Licensors. Further, if the Contractor is providing licenses or products on 
opex model or on lease, then in case of termination, NTPC will have to pay for the entire 
pre-agreed duration of the contract.
No change 
80
47.3-Termination 
for Contractor's 
Default 108
The entire clause We request that a notice period of atleast 30 days be provided to the Contractor to 
rectify/cure any breach. No change 
81
54.2-No claim for 
Interest or Damage
112
No claim for interest or damage will be entertained or be payable by the Employer in respect of any 
amount or balance which may be lying with the Employer or may become due upon 
settlement/adjudication of any dispute, difference or misunderstanding between the parties by way
of arbitration or court proceedings or otherwise or in respect of any delay or omission on the part of 
the Employer in making intermediate or final payment or in respect of any amount/damage which 
may be claimed through arbitration or court proceedings or in any other respect whatsoever.
We request changes in the clause to indicate that the bidder will be entitled to seek 
interest or damages on any non-payment or delayed payments or any 
guarantee/security/retention money or payments in arrears or any balance payments or 
any settlement amounts. No change 
82
1.5-Arbitration
205
Notwithstanding any reference to the Independent Engineer or Mediation or Conciliation or 
Arbitration
herein,
(a) the parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations under the Contract unless they 
otherwise agree.
(b) the Employer shall pay the Contractor any monies due to the Contractor.
Settlement of Dispute clause cannot be invoked by the Contractor, if the Contract has been mutually 
closed or ‘No Demand Certificate’ has been furnished by the Contractor or any Settlement Agreement 
has been signed between the Employer and the Contractor.
It is clarified that the Bidder will perform its obligations/services only to the extent they 
are not a subject matter of or are impacted by the arbitration.
No change 
83 Bid Validity Period 120 Days We request capping the bid validity to 30 days to ensure predictability in resource and 
pricing commitments. No change 
84
47.1. Termination 
of Contract
107
If at any time after award of Contract, the Employer shall decide to abandon or reduce the scope of 
the Works for any reason whatsoever and hence not require the whole or any part of the Works to be 
carried out by the Contractor, the Engineer - in- Charge shall give notice in writing to that effect to the 
Contractor and the Contractor except as herein under provided, shall have no claim to any payment of 
compensation or otherwise whatsoever, on account of any profit or advantage which he might have 
derived from the execution of the Works in full but which he did not derive in consequence of the said 
termination of the whole or part of the Works.
We request that in the event of termination for convenience, the Bidder, apart from the 
payments made for the work already done, also be compensated/paid for the orders 
already placed with OEMs/Licensors, which orders cannot be cancelled with the 
OEMs/Licensors, cancellation costs, if any, levied by the OEMs/Licensors, and logistical 
and administrative expenses, if any, incurred by by the Bidder on account of such 
cancellations, which expenses shall be billed on actuals. Further, if the bidder is supplying 
any products/licenses on on opex model, then the NTPC shall pay the bidder the residual 
value of such products/licenses.
No change 
85
47.3. Termination 
for Contractor’s 
Default
108
47.3. Termination for Contractor’s Default It is requested that in the event of termination for default, the NTPC shall pay to the 
Bidder for work done successfully till the date of payment. Further, NTPC shall also pay to 
the selected Bidder for orders already placed with OEMs/Software Licensors, which Orders 
cannot be cancelled with the OEMs/Software Licensors or pay cancellation costs, if any, 
levied by the OEMs/Software Licensors, which shall be billed on actuals.
No change 
86
12. Price Basis
18
The Contract price shall remain FIRM throughout the contract period and will be NOT be
subject to adjustment for price escalation during the performance of the Contract until
unless specified otherwise in the SCC.
The Commercial Offer shall be on a fixed price basis, inclusive of all taxes and levies. No price increases 
due to increases in customs duty, excise, tax, dollar price variation etc. will be permitted.
Bidder will quote based on the current cost price of the quoted products and current 
exchange rate. Due to the current global uncertainty concerning the proposed US tariffs, 
and the fluctuating foreign exchange rates, our quoted price will subject to change based 
on the then current exchange rate and any associated vendor price increases at the time 
of invoicing.
No change 
87
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENTS 
FOR BIDDERS:
7.1 Technical Criteria - 7.1.2, page 4
Notes for clause 7.1 (Technical criteria) of QR:
1. ‘Similar’ work means works which inter alia include Supply and Installation or Implementation and 
operations of at least one of the following:
a. Secure Service Edge (SSE)
b. Secure Web Gateway (SWG)
c. Zero Trust Network Access (ZTNA) / VPN
Kindly clarify if reference of Web Proxy experience will be considerded similar to Secure 
Web gateway experience No change 
88
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENTS 
FOR BIDDERS:
7.1 Technical Criteria - 7.1.2, page 4
a) One Work of executed value not less than Rs. 491/- Lakhs
OR
b) Two works of executed value not less than Rs. 306/- Lakhs each
OR
c) Three works of executed value not less than of Rs. 245/- Lakhs each.
Please clarify if the executed value mentioned is total project value consisting of product 
cost, implementation cost, AMC / ATS including manpower. Yes
89
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENTS 
FOR BIDDERS:
7.1 Technical Criteria - 7.1.2, page 4
The word “executed” means the bidder should have achieved the criteria specified above, even if the 
contract has been started earlier and / or is not completed / closed.
We understand, even if the Purchase order for the project was placed earlier, but the 
priject was running / is running and supported including renewal during the mentioned 
duration, it will be considered.
Please confirm.
In case of contract(s) 
under execution as on 
the date of techno-
commercial bid opening, 
the value of
‘similar’ work(s) 
executed till the date of 
techno-commercial bid 
opening shall be 
considered subject to 
submission of certificate 
from End-user duly 
certifying the executed 
value of ‘similar’ work in  
Contract/PO/Work.
Sl. No Document Ref. Existing Clause Read As / Clarification
1
Section: General Platform 
Features
Point #2, Page # 241
The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing requirements: 
1) SWG, CASB, Threat Protection, DLP, Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users from 
Day 1.
2) ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 
users with at least 100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access  solution must 
include a minimum of 05 pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of  Connectors  from Day 1. These 8000 Users 
are in addition to the above SSE users.
The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing requirements: 
1) SWG, CASB, Threat Protection, DLP, Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users + 2000 Guest Users 
from Day 1.
2) ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private application access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 users with at least 
100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access  solution must include a minimum of 05 pairs ( 05 + 05 in 
HA) of  Connectors  from Day 1. 1000 ZTNA users (i.e  contractors, vendors etc, non-employee users) shall be in 
addition to the above SSE users.
3) Each licensed user must be allowed to connect a minimum of four (04) distinct devices (e.g., laptop, mobile 
phone, tablet, Desktop Computer) under a single user license without requiring additional licenses. The solution 
must provide a process for de-registering or replacing devices.
2
Section: A- General 
Platform Features
Point #7, Page # 241
The proposed solution must have CSA STAR, SOC 2, SOC2-type2/SOC3/CIS certifications. The proposed solution must have CSA STAR, SOC 2/SOC2-type2/SOC3/CIS certifications.
3
Section: B- Secure Web 
Gateway
Point #1(b), Page # 241
b. Encypted Phase 1 and Encrypted Phase 2 IPSec Tunnel- NTPC will create / configure the 
web gateway firewall or router to send web traffic to the cloud SWG through an IPsec tunnel 
for policy compliance and security. It should not require an agent on the client device. 
This requiement is for unauthenticated users and is in addition to the total users requirement 
of 20,000 Licenses (i.e 18000 users + 2000 Guest users)
Licenses for 100+100 nos of such simultaneous IPSec Tunnels of 400 Mbps each OR if Licenses 
are based on Bandwidth then the solution should be licensed for atleast agreegated 05 Gbps 
of Traffic handling capacity originated from this forwarding mechanism. This agreggation shall 
be summation of raffic from all sites at any given point of time. NTPC will provide Router 
and/or Thrid party Firewall at such locations. If any additional on-site harware is required for 
establising the same or meeting the functionality, then the bidder may consider the same in 
their offer for 50 such locations. Considering 02 ISP at each Locations.
The solution must provide protection for users connecting via IPSEC tunnels even if the agent 
is not installed on the devices like laptops/desktops/Mobile devices/IOT/OT devices/Guest 
users.
b. Encypted Phase 1 and Encrypted Phase 2 IPSec Tunnel- NTPC will create / configure the web gateway firewall 
or router to send web traffic to the cloud SWG through an IPsec tunnel for policy compliance and security. It 
should not require an agent on the client device.
The solution must provide protection for users connecting via IPSEC tunnels even if the agent is not installed on 
the devices like laptops/desktops/Mobile devices/IOT/OT devices/Guest users.
This requiement is for unauthenticated users and is in addition to the total users requirement of 20,000 Licenses 
(i.e 18000 users + 2000 Guest users).
Licenses for 100+100 nos of such simultaneous IPSec Tunnels of 400 Mbps each 
OR 
if Licenses are based on Bandwidth then the solution should be licensed for atleast agreegated 05 Gbps of 
Traffic handling capacity originated from this forwarding mechanism. This agreggation shall be summation of 
traffic from all sites at any given point of time. NTPC will provide Router and/or Thrid party Firewall at such 
locations. If any additional on-site harware is required for establising the same or meeting the functionality, 
then the bidder may consider the same in their offer for 50 such locations. Considering 02 ISP at each Locations.
OR
if the Licenses are based on Number of Users / devices that can access SWG thru IPSec Tunnels, then licenses 
provision for 20,000 licenses (18000 users + 2000 Guest Users) is to be offered by the bidder.
4
Section: B- Secure Web 
Gateway
Point #3, Page # 241
The proposed solution should be able to provide URL Filtering for at least 80+ URL categories 
and must have capability to enforce granular advance activity control as mentioned below:
a. Webmail Category: Upload, Download, & Attach
b. File Sharing / Cloudstorage category: Upload, Download, & Post.
c. Collaboration Category: Upload, Download, & Post
The proposed solution should be able to provide URL Filtering for at least 80+ URL categories and must have 
capability to enforce activity control as mentioned below:
a. Webmail Category: Allow & Block ( uploading Attachments, sending Mail)
b. File Sharing / Cloudstorage category: Upload, Allow, Block
c. Collaboration Category: Allow, Block 
5
Section: l- DIGITAL 
EXPEREINCE 
MANAGEMENT
Point #1, Page # 243
The Solution must have DEM (Digital Experience Management) License for atleast 05 SaaS 
Apps/Probes to find out issues related with Applications, Hop-by-Hop Latency and Network 
path tracing including hop by hop analysis of all internal and external hops on every probe 
with ISP/AS Number & Geo details for each hop, User Device Stats (CPU, Memory, Network, 
Storage) and effectively reduce mean time to identify root cause of experience/performance 
issues and help in resolution.
The Licenses for atleast 1000 Users should be provided. There should be a provision for 
providing and revoking the DEM Licenses to any users in the same or a seperate tenant/ 
group.
The Solution must have DEM (Digital Experience Management) License for atleast 05 SaaS Apps/Probes to find 
out issues related with Applications, 
Service Side Telemetry - 
Latency and Network path tracing 
internal and external hops with ISP/AS Number 
Cliend Side Telemerty - 
User Device Stats (CPU, Memory etc) & Network Utilization & Quality
The Licenses for atleast 1000 Users should be provided. 
6 Clause No -Section C point 
no 1 Page-242
The solution should have both Inline CASB and out of band CASB API for minimum 10 SaaS 
Apps capabilities from day 1. In addition, the solution must have SSPM (SaaS Security Posture 
Management) for minimum of 10 SaaS apps to protect misconfigurations, and compliances 
with security standards.The solution should support real-time visibility sanctioned and 
unsanctioned applications with dynamic risk score based on Cloud Security Alliance 
Standards. The solution must be able to report the security compliances and certifications 
achieved by these apps.
The solution should have both Inline CASB and out of band CASB API for minimum 10 SaaS Apps capabilities 
from day 1. In addition the solution should deliver SSPM / SSE based SaaS Security compiance with security 
standards for minimum 10 SaaS apps, which includes real-time visibtity for sanctioned / un-sanctioned 
applications with dynamic risk score based on cloud security alliance standards. The solution must be able to 
report the security complainces and certifications achived by these applications.
7 Clause No -Section E point 
no 11 Page-242
The solution should support sending alerts to admins whenever there is confidential data 
match
The solution should support sending alerts to user / admin whenever there is confidential data match. The 
event details should also be available on solution dasboard for admin's review
8 Clause - B-Secure Web 
Gateway - 2 Page-241
The Secure Web Gateway must provide an option to redirect specific Government/Other 
Internet Websites via NTPC Engress IPs or provide Dedicated Egress IPv4 addresses in atleast 
02 of the Data Centres. Any software / hardware / license required must be included in pairs 
for DC and DR.
The Secure Web Gateway must provide an option to redirect specific Government/Other Internet Websites via 
dedicated Egress IPs provided by SSE OEM exclusively for NTPC in atleast 02 of the SSE Cloud Data Centres (total 
04 IPv4). 
Aditionally the solution should be able to redirect internet Traffic ( for 1000 Nodes) via NTPC Public IPs from 
DC/DR.
Any software / hardware / license required must be included.
9
Clause - H- Zero Trust 
Network Access (For 
Internal Private Apps) - 11 
Page-243
The solution must have the capability to authenticate users and enrol/log using their personal 
email addresses for 3rd party users or non-domain joined machines. SSE admin user must be 
able to send invite links to the end user’s personal email to on-board the users with end user 
agent for authorized application accesses.
The solution must have the capability to authenticate users and enrol/log using their non-NTPC email addresses 
for 3rd party users or non-domain joined machines. The solution must be able to send invite links to the end 
user’s personal email to on-board the users with end user agent for authorized application accesses.
10
H.Zero Trust Network 
Access (For Internal Private 
Apps)
Page No 242, Point No 12
The ZTNA solution must also allow the NTPC to provide third-parties (vendors, contractors, 
suppliers), IT administrators, and remote employees controlled access to its  servers and 
applications via a clientless remote desktop gateway that enables end-users to securely 
connect to servers, or desktops using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Secure Shell (SSH), or 
Virtual Network Computing (VNC) from the end user’s modern browser ( Remote Browser 
Isolation or Enterprise Browser)  without installing ZTNA endpoint agent or any browser 
plugins.
The ZTNA solution must also allow the NTPC to provide third-parties (vendors, contractors, suppliers), IT 
administrators, and remote employees controlled access to its servers and applications via a clientless remote 
desktop gateway that enables end-users to securely connect to servers, or desktops using Remote Desktop 
Protocol (RDP), Secure Shell (SSH), or Virtual Network Computing (VNC) from the 1000 end user without 
installing ZTNA endpoint agent. The same may be achieved using modern browser (RBI or EB) or any browser 
plugins or using any other secure method.
11
Section: L- IdP (Identity 
Provider) For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest Users 
Point #3 page #244
The solution must have SaaS based (Cloud-Native) Identity Provider (IdP) platform designed 
to seamlessly connect with any Service Provider (SP)-based application.
The solution must have SaaS based (Cloud-Native) Identity Provider (IdP) platform designed to seamlessly 
connect with any Service Provider (SP)-based application. The Offered IdP solution should be able to integrate 
with atleast 50 Applications and atleast 04 other IdP Service Providers
12
Section: L- IdP (Identity 
Provider) For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest Users 
Point #7 page #244
The IdP solution mut have native self-service MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication) setup / reset 
and MFA must have options including soft tokens, mobile-based tokens, SMS-based tokens, 
Push Notifications etc
The IdP solution mut have native self-service MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication) setup / reset and MFA must 
have options including soft tokens, mobile-based tokens, SMS-based tokens, TOTP, Push Notifications etc
13
Section: L- IdP (Identity 
Provider) For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest Users 
Point #10 page #244
The solution must provide offline authentication options, allowing users to verify access 
without an active internet connection.
The solution must provide offline authentication options, allowing users to verify access without an active 
internet or Mobile connection.
14
Section: G- Advanced DNS 
Security  Point #5 page 
#242
The proposed DNS security solution should allow to a separate recursive DNS system for 
identifying internal / Local applications for LAN connected nodes, so as traffic destined to 
Applications / Servers in local LAN / WAN should not be routed thru the cloud SWG / Internet. 
The proposed solution should include secure Public recursive DNS services for the SSE clients, agents and un-
auntheticated users. The system must be able to identify internal / Local applications for LAN connected nodes, 
so as traffic destined to Applications / Servers in local LAN / WAN should not be routed thru the cloud SWG / 
Internet. 
15
Section: E-Web DLP (Data 
Loss Prevention)  Point #6 
page #242
The solution must have the capability to use new-age technologies like Artifical Intelligence 
and Machine Learning to understand sensitive documents and protect against data leakages 
over web channel from day 1. The solution should should have capability to use the AI and ML 
Engines to detect and prevent data leakages happening over Web Channel via Screenshots, 
Images etc.
The solution must have the capability to use new-age technologies like Artifical Intelligence and Machine 
Learning to understand sensitive documents and protect against data leakages over web channel from day 1. 
The solution should should have capability to use the AI and ML Engines to detect and prevent data leakages 
happening over Web Channel via Screenshots, Images etc.
The solution should be able to do real-time monitoring of prompts, file uploads, and copy/paste actions, using 
AI/ML to detect sensitive data (PII, code, IP) and enforcing policies to block, redact, or alert before data leaves 
the organization, covering endpoints, networks, and cloud thru SSE solution.
GEM/2025/B/6835803                Corrigendum No - 1 ( Amendment)
Sl. No Document Ref. Existing Clause Read As / Clarification
GEM/2025/B/6835803                Corrigendum No - 1 ( Amendment)
16 Scope of Work, 14.0 
Payment Terms - 14.1 9(a)
License Subscription Charges
(Refer to Sl. No (A): Security Service Edge (SSE) and ZTNA SaaS Licenses in the BoQ for the SSE 
Package)
a) First Year License Subscription Charges
100% of the license subscription charges for the first year shall be released upon successful 
completion of the following milestones:
* Acceptance and successful handover of the SSE solution to NTPC.
* Handover of the requisite number of subscribed licenses for the first year (as specified in 
the BoQ) to NTPC. These details must be verifiable on the Licenses page of the SSE dashboard 
/ confirmation from the OEM
* Completion of a successful inspection of the implemented solution.
License Subscription Charges
(Refer to Sl. No (A): Security Service Edge (SSE) and ZTNA SaaS Licenses in the BoQ for the SSE Package)
a) First Year License Subscription Charges
100% of the license subscription charges for the first year shall be released upon successful installation and 
commisioning of the solution:
*Successfull installation and Comissioning of the SSE solution shall be as per Clause 8.3 (page 231).
* Provisioining for requisite number of subscribed licenses for the first year (as specified in the BoQ) to NTPC. 
These details must be verifiable on the Licenses page of the SSE dashboard / confirmation from the OEM
17
Scope of Work, 8.3 - 
Acceptance and handing 
over:  Page 231
Acceptance / Handover Criteria –
Date of Start of Licenses (Day 01) – Following should be completed as a prerequisite to be 
declared as Day 01 of Start of Licenses / Subscription)
. All services (SWG, IPSec, ZTNA, DEM, RBI etc.) are ready to be used by NTPC and agents / 
SWG services on at least 10000 NTPC users / Guests have been onboard onto the SSE 
platform by the bidder . At least 10 IPSec / Tunnel Connections have been enabled / 
configured by the Bidder from at least 05 NTPC Locations / DC DR / Sites. (Router / Firewall 
Hardware shall be provided by NTPC at NTPC Premises. Configuration assistance shall be 
provided by the Bidder)
. Although Bidder may provide initial installation / configuration / users onboard assistance 
from DC Noida / DR Hyderabad, however, If the bidder’s installation team is required to visit 
to complete or achieve the installation schedule, the bidder may have to arrange travel, 
boarding and lodging arrangements for their project personnels at sites. NTPC may provide 
guesthouse accommodation at few locations subject to availability.
. An Undertaking by the OEM that requisite number of irrevocable Licenses has been enabled 
on the OEM platform for the required period.
Solution Installation & Commisioning Criteria –
Date of Start of Licenses (Day 01) – Following should be completed as a prerequisite to be declared as Day 01 of 
Start of Licenses / Subscription)
. All services (SWG, IPSec, ZTNA, DEM, RBI etc.) are ready to be used by NTPC and agents / SWG services on at 
least 10000 NTPC users / Guests have been onboard onto the SSE platform by the bidder . At least 10 IPSec / 
Tunnel Connections have been enabled / configured by the Bidder from at least 05 NTPC Locations / DC DR / 
Sites. (Router / Firewall Hardware shall be provided by NTPC at NTPC Premises. Configuration assistance shall be 
provided by the Bidder)
. Although Bidder may provide initial installation / configuration / users onboard assistance from DC Noida / DR 
Hyderabad, however, If the bidder’s installation team is required to visit to complete or achieve the installation 
schedule, the bidder may have to arrange travel, boarding and lodging arrangements for their project 
personnels at sites. NTPC may provide guesthouse accommodation on chargeable basis at few locations subject 
to availability.
. An Undertaking by the OEM that requisite number of irrevocable Licenses has been enabled on the OEM 
platform for the required period.
18
Clause 14.9 - Minimum / 
Maximum Price Component 
(b)
Page 238
(b) Installation and Training component must not exceed 2.5% of the total bid price. If 
exceeds, then they will deduct and pay and release the rest of the amount at the end of the 5 
year contract period.
(b) - DELETED
19
Section: OTHER TERMS 
AND CONDITIONS page 
#244
Annual True-Up for 
Additional Licenses
Annual True-Up for Additional Licenses
NTPC may conduct an annual true-up for additional licenses of the required solution(s) as per 
the RFP, in multiples of 200 units, if the consumption of licenses exceeds 10% of the 
subscribed quantity in the previous license year. The minimum threshold for triggering a true-
up is 10%, unless the OEM's default allowance is higher, in which case that higher threshold 
will apply. The true-up will only apply if the excess license usage continues for more than 60 
consecutive days.
Payment for additional licenses will be calculated on a prospective basis after the annual true-
up, in multiples of 200 units. For example, if the subscribed license count in the previous year 
was 20,000 and the actual usage is up to 22,000, no additional licenses will be required. 
However, if the usage reaches 22,100, the total number of licenses will be trued-up to 22,200. 
All payments, including those for additional licenses in the first and subsequent years, shall be 
made in accordance with the agreed Payment Terms.
In the event of license/subscription usage exceeding the subscribed count, the OEM or its 
representative shall notify the NTPC Engineering-in-Charge at least 30 days in advance, to 
enable timely corrective measures and manage any temporary license spikes.
Annual True-Up for Additional Licenses
NTPC may conduct an annual true-up for additional licenses of the required solution(s) as per the RFP, in 
multiples of 200 units, if the consumption of licenses exceeds 10% of the subscribed quantity in the previous 
license year. The minimum threshold for triggering a true-up is 10%, unless the OEM's default allowance is 
higher, in which case that higher threshold will apply. The true-up will only apply if the excess license usage 
continues for more than 30 consecutive days.
Payment for additional licenses will be calculated on a prospective basis after the annual true-up, in multiples of 
200 units. For example, if the subscribed license count in the previous year was 20,000 and the actual usage is 
up to 22,000, no additional licenses will be required. However, if the usage reaches 22,100, the total number of 
licenses will be trued-up to 22,200. 
All payments, including those for additional licenses in the first and subsequent years, shall be made in 
accordance with the agreed Payment Terms.
In the event of license/subscription usage exceeding the subscribed count, the OEM or its representative shall 
notify the NTPC Engineering-in-Charge at least 30 days in advance, to enable timely corrective measures and 
manage any temporary license spikes.
Also if any bidder / OEM is offering any bundle licenses with SSE licences for DEM or RBI or ZTNA or any other 
component, then true up for such components shall be applicable over and above the bundled offered licenses.
20 Section: Scope of Work: 2.0 
page #224
If required, NTPC may ask for Proof of Concept (POC) to demonstrate the technical 
compliance for the specifications mentioned prior to evaluation of bids / opening of price bid. 
When asked, the bidder shall demonstrate the capability through POC within 7 days of 
receiving the request from NTPC, failing which, the solution proposed by the bidder shall be 
deemed as technically non-compliant
NTPC shall have the right to inspect, test, and verify the goods, either by itself or through a third party, at any 
stage of the procurement process, including during technical evaluation of bids, as well as after supply, 
installation, commissioning, and during the operational period, to confirm conformity with the specifications 
and functional requirements stipulated in the bid documents.
In case the goods are found non-compliant with the prescribed technical specifications or functional 
requirements during bid evaluation, the bid shall be treated as non-responsive and rejected. If any non-
conformity is detected after award of contract, including during operation, the bidder/contractor shall, at its 
own cost and risk, promptly replace or rectify the non-compliant goods to the satisfaction of NTPC within the 
stipulated time frame.
Failure to comply with the above shall attract action as per the applicable General Conditions of Contract (GCC), 
including imposition of penalties/liquidated damages as per SLA, and any other remedies available to NTPC 
under the contract, including but not limited to risk purchase, encashment of Performance Security, and 
termination of contract
Sl No Document Section 
Reference Existing Clause Query / Clarification sought NTPC Reply (Clarification)
1 General Platform Features
Page No 241, Point No 2
The SSE solution shall have the following component wise licensing requirements: 
 1)SWG, CASB, Threat ProtecƟon, DLP , Cloud Firewall, DNS Security for Min.18,000 users + 
2000 Guest Users from Day 1.
 2)ZTNA / Secure Remote Access for Private applicaƟon access in DC, DR & Cloud : Min. 8000 
users with at least 
100 App Segments. The ZTNA / Secure Remote Access  solution must include a minimum of 05 
pairs ( 05 + 05 in HA) of  Connectors  from Day 1. 1000 ZTNA users (i.e  contractors, vendors 
etc, non-employee users) shall be in addition to the above SSE users.
3) Each licensed user must be allowed to connect a minimum of four (04) distinct devices 
(e.g., laptop, mobile phone, tablet, Desktop Computer) under a single user license without 
requiring additional licenses. The solution must provide a process for de-registering or 
replacing devices.
We understand that as we are provisioning 8000 users for ZTNA/Remote Access for 
Private Application, The additional 1000 ZTNA users  for contractors, vendors etc, non-
employee users will be not required in this case as same can be catered from 8000 users 
ask. Also for the solution to process the licensing the de-registering or disable is same 
thing. Please confirm.
1000 ZTNA users (i.e contractors, vendors etc, non-employee users) shall be in addition 
to the above SSE users: Will these 1000 ZTNA users be over and above 8000 ZTNA users? 
And these users will access the private apps over which protocol: HTTP/HTTPS or 
RDP/SSH/VNC?
Total ZTNA Licenses requirement is 
for 8000 SSE users. 
Also in addition 1000 ZTNA users (i.e  
contractors, vendors etc, non-
employee users) who will not be SSE 
/ SWG users and will be using a 
seperate identity for authetication. 
 
Deregistering or disabling or 
replacing devices will be considered 
at par.
2 B.Secure Web Gateway 
Page No 241, Point No 2
The Secure Web Gateway must provide an option to redirect specific Government/Other 
Internet Websites via dedicated Egress IPs provided by SSE OEM exclusively for NTPC in 
atleast 02 of the SSE Cloud Data Centres (total 04 IPv4). 
Aditionally the solution should be able to redirect internet Traffic ( for 1000 Nodes) via NTPC 
Public IPs from DC/DR.
Any software / hardware / license required must be included.
As per NTPC requirement for the user traffic working from remote the NTPC require a 
Dedicated IP for the specific URLS and hence its critical to have the Dedicated IP across 
the all DC in India ,so that their traffic has to jump over to one of the two data centers 
where dedicated egress IP are provisoned before it can reach the internet.
Please change this as requested 
"The Secure Web Gateway must provide an option to redirect specific 
Government/Other Internet Websites via dedicated Egress IPs provided by SSE OEM 
exclusively for NTPC in all of the SSE Cloud Data Centres in India.
Aditionally the solution should be able to redirect internet Traffic ( for 1000 Nodes) via 
NTPC Public IPs from DC/DR.
Any software / hardware / license required must be included."
REFER Corrigendum - 2 (Amendment) 
SL. No 1
3
E. Web DLP (Data Loss 
Prevention)
Page No 242, Point No 6
The solution must have the capability to use new-age technologies like Artifical Intelligence 
and Machine Learning to understand sensitive documents and protect against data leakages 
over web channel from day 1. The solution should should have capability to use the AI and ML 
Engines to detect and prevent data leakages happening over Web Channel via Screenshots, 
Images etc.
The solution should be able to do real-time monitoring of prompts, file uploads, and 
copy/paste actions, using AI/ML to detect sensitive data (PII, code, IP) and enforcing policies 
to block, redact, or alert before data leaves the organization, covering endpoints, networks, 
and cloud thru SSE solution.
Real-time monitoring of prompts, copy/paste action and redact are functionality of AI 
Security solution which is altogether a different solution form SSE and also language 
need to be rephrased to cover the Data Risk use case of AI apps. 
Hence we request to modify this specification.
Please change this as requested
"The solution must have the capability to use new-age technologies like Artifical 
Intelligence and Machine Learning to understand sensitive documents and protect 
against data leakages over web channel from day 1. The solution should should have 
capability to use the AI and ML Engines to detect and prevent data leakages happening 
over Web Channel via Screenshots, Images etc.
The solution should be able to do real-time monitoring of prompts for sensitive 
information uploaded via file or text uploads, using AI/ML to detect sensitive data 
enforcing policies to monitor ,block or alert before data leaves the organization, covering 
endpoints, networks, and cloud thru SSE solution from all browsers "
REFER Corrigendum - 2 (Amendment) 
SL. No 2
4
H.Zero Trust
Network Access
(For Internal Private
Apps)
Page No 242, Point
No 9
The ZTNA Solution must provide access to any TCP & UDP based Internal Applications 
including Browser based and Thick Client Applications using the single SSE Agent installed on 
User Machines.The ZTNA solution must have both server-to-client and client-to-server 
applications. SMB File share,
AD GPO update, Pushing patch form server to user machine must be supported. If any 
additional Licenses / functionality is required to be provided, the same should be included for 
all ZTNA users in the offer."
We understand that there are 2 locations (DC and DR) where applications are hosted and 
compute needed to be provisioned. Later, if NTPC has more private applications added in 
IaaS, there should not additional licence for ZTNA Private Access as 5 pair of connector is 
the ask.Please confirm. NO CHANGE. 
5 Additional Point
The Solution must have option to apply granular control on  Generative AI apps & Gen AI 
category based on the Granular Activities performed along with dlp control within the 
Generative Applications and Gen AI category like:
1. ChatGPT: Upload, Download, post etc.
2. Gemini: Upload, Download, post etc.
As NTPC manages critical national power infrastructure, unmonitored Generative AI use 
risks exposing sensitive power generation and infrastructure data to public models. This 
could lead to a critical operational security compromise or the theft of high-value 
Intellectual Property, directly impacting national power supply. Therefore, strict control 
and clear visibility over how these AI tools are used are mandatory to protect the 
nation's power supply.
REFER Corrigendum - 2 (Amendment) 
SL. No 2
6
The proposed solution must support user-to-devices restriction to monitor the number of 
devices single user can login simultaneously at one time. Solution should be capable of 
unregistering the user if the device limit is exceeded.
Automated unregistration ensures that only limited number of devices are used to 
access private applications. This minimizes the digital footprints of users and attack 
surface. For large organization with 1800 users, keeping a manual watch on number of 
devices registered per user is imposssible, hence soltuion should unregister the user 
automatically. 
NO CHANGE. 
7
Section:J Logging and 
Dashboard. Point number 
1 Page #244
The proposed solution must have capability for End-User trasactions log retention for atleast 
180 Days for all SSE, DNS, ZTNA, DLP and other solution. All the transaction logs must be 
stored in India.
The solution must be integrated with on-prem and cloud based SIEM solution (NTPC SIEM) for 
longer log retention and forensic analysis. There should be provision for download of raw end-
user transaction logs for providing the same to statutary agencies.
Data soveregnty as NTPC is a critical public sector unit managing critical information 
infrastructure. All the logs should be stored in geographical boundaries of India.
REFER Corrigendum - 2 (Amendment) 
SL. No 3
8
Section: A- General 
Platform Features
Point #9, Page # 241
The solution must be a part of Microsoft Active Protections Program (MAPP).
MAPP is a 3rd party certification which has no relevance with SSE platform. Requesting 
you to remove this clause or If this point is to protect NTPC from small vendors, please 
add pre-qualification criteria that SSE vendors must have a minimum of 500+ customers 
globally. Skyhigh is amongst the top performers and offers strong protection against 
Windows threat which has been certified by AV Test, where we are detecting 99.7% 
Windows Threats against an industry average of 86.8%. AV Test results can be shared for 
your reference.
This Query is not addressed in the corrigendum. Kindly remove the clause or Change as 
following: MAPP is a 3rd party certification which has no relevance with SSE platform. 
Requesting you to remove this clause or If this point is to protect NTPC from small 
vendors, please add pre qualification criteria that SSE vendors must have a minimum of 
500+ customers globally. Skyhigh is amongst the top performers and offers strong 
protection against Windows threat which has been certified by AV Test, where we are 
detecting 99.7% Windows Threats against an industry average of 86.8%. AV Test results 
can be shared for your reference.
NO CHANGE. 
9
Section: D- Threat 
Protection
Point #1(b), Page # 242
b. Web IPS (for Advanced Threat Protection against C&C Servers, DGA botnet attacks, 
malicious active content, P2P anonymizers)
Please change the wording as "The proposed sandbox solution must be natively in-line 
and inspect before delivery to the user." as Skyhigh Security protects against botnets and 
C&C servers using heuristic, anti-malware rules, and signature updates without needing 
an IPS
Web IPS is part of separate solution and not part of SSE, Requesting you to remove sub 
clause "b. Web IPS (for Advanced Threat Protection against C&C Servers, DGA botnet 
attacks, malicious active content, P2P anonymizers)"
REFER Corrigendum - 2 (Amendment) 
SL. No 4
GeM Bid: GEM/2025/B/6835803// Bid Corrigendum -2 (Clarification)
10
Section: l- DIGITAL 
EXPEREINCE 
MANAGEMENT
Point #1, Page # 243
The Solution must have DEM (Digital Experience Management) License for at least 05 SaaS 
Apps/Probes to find out issues related with Applications, Hop-by-Hop Latency and Network 
path tracing including hop by hop analysis of all internal and external hops on every probe 
with ISP/AS Number & Geo details for each hop, User Device Stats (CPU, Memory, Network, 
Storage) and effectively reduce mean time to identify root cause of experience/performance 
issues and help in resolution. The Licenses for atleast 1000 Users should be provided. There 
should be a provision for providing and revoking the DEM Licenses to any users in the same or 
a separate tenant / group.
DEM is not part of SSE, however as it is a BOQ item, Please rephrase as or accepted as 
'Solution should support Service-side telemetry such as application transaction visibility, 
processing times, responsiveness metrics, and bandwidth-related insights as well as 
Client-side telemetry such as user device CPU, memory, storage, network utilization, Wi-
Fi signal quality, and ISP/network latency'.
This clause is favouring a particular OEM as DEM is not part of SSE, however as it is a 
BOQ item, Please rephrase as or accepted as 'Solution should support service-side 
telemetry such as application transaction visibility, processing times, responsiveness 
metrics, and bandwidth-related insights as well as Client-side telemetry such as user 
device CPU, memory, storage, network utilization, Wi-Fi signal quality, and ISP/network 
latency'.
REFER Earlier Corrigendum - 1 
(Amendment) SL. No 5
11
Scope of Work:
FMS services & Support 
Workforce Requirement 
and Deployment Plan
Clause No. 2.1 Page 225
Level NSA (Network and Security Administrator) –
· Engineering Graduate in Computer Science / IT / ECE or MCA / M. Sc. (IT) / M. Sc. (Computer 
Science) from recognized University /Institute, with minimum 10 years of post-minimum 
Qualification experience out of which at least 05 Years of Experience of managing security 
infrastructure that includes products like next Generation Firewall, SSE, VPN, SWG, etc.,
Level NSA (Network and Security Administrator) –
· Engineering Graduate in Computer Science / IT / ECE or MCA / M. Sc. (IT) / M. Sc. 
(Computer Science) from recognized University /Institute, with minimum 5 to 8 years of 
post-minimum Qualification experience out of which at least 05 Years of Experience of 
managing security infrastructure that includes products like next Generation Firewall, 
SSE, VPN, SWG, etc.,
Justification:- As the product is also backline with OEM for complete 5 years and hence 
asking 10 Year exp. resource is very costly and it will load the cost overall and price 
would be very high.
NO CHANGE. 
12 New Requirement
The proposed SSE OEM must not have been blacklisted by any State, Central, or Public 
Sector Unit of the Government within the last one year." An undertaking in this regard 
should be provided by the OEM
GeM Conditions will prevail
Sl. 
No Document Ref. Existing Clause
1 Clause - B-Secure Web 
Gateway - 2 Page-241
The Secure Web Gateway must provide an option to redirect specific 
Government/Other Internet Websites via dedicated Egress IPs provided by SSE OEM 
exclusively for NTPC in atleast 02 of the SSE Cloud Data Centres (total 04 IPv4). 
Aditionally the solution should be able to redirect internet Traffic ( for 1000 Nodes) 
via NTPC Public IPs from DC/DR.
Any software / hardware / license required must be included.
2
Section: E-Web DLP 
(Data Loss Prevention)  
Point #6 page #242
The solution must have the capability to use new-age technologies like Artifical 
Intelligence and Machine Learning to understand sensitive documents and protect 
against data leakages over web channel from day 1. The solution should should have 
capability to use the AI and ML Engines to detect and prevent data leakages 
happening over Web Channel via Screenshots, Images etc.
The solution should be able to do real-time monitoring of prompts, file uploads, and 
copy/paste actions, using AI/ML to detect sensitive data (PII, code, IP) and enforcing 
policies to block, redact, or alert before data leaves the organization, covering 
endpoints, networks, and cloud thru SSE solution.
3
Section:J Logging and 
Dashboard. Point number 
1 Page #244
The proposed solution must have capability for End-User trasactions log retention for 
atleast 180 Days for all SSE, DNS, ZTNA, DLP and other solution.
The solution must be integrated with on-prem and cloud based SIEM solution (NTPC 
SIEM) for longer log retention and forensic analysis. There should be provision for 
download of raw end-user transaction logs for providing the same to statutary 
agencies.
4
Section: D- Threat 
Protection
Point #1(b), Page # 242
b. Web IPS (for Advanced Threat Protection against C&C Servers, DGA botnet attacks, 
malicious active content, P2P anonymizers)
5
Section: L- IdP (Identity 
Provider) For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #2 page 
#244
The proposed IdP solution must have ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018 & SOC 2 
compliances.
6
Section: L- IdP (Identity 
Provider) For 3rd Party , 
Associates & Guest 
Users Point #8 page 
#244
The IdP/MFA solution must be able to enforce access from only trusted endpoints on 
the basis of MDM presence/device id etc.
The proposed solution must have capability for End-User trasactions log retention for atleast 180 Days for all SSE, 
DNS, ZTNA, DLP and other solution. Transaction Logs must be stored in OEM owned / Co-locted data centres in 
India.
The solution must be integrated with on-prem and cloud based SIEM solution (NTPC SIEM) for longer log retention 
and forensic analysis. There should be provision for download of raw end-user transaction logs for providing the 
same to statutary agencies.
b. The solution must have threat protection against against C&C Servers, DGA botnet attacks, malicious active 
content, P2P anonymizers
The proposed IdP solution must have ISO 27001/ ISO 27017/ISO 27018/ SOC 2 compliances.
The IdP/MFA solution must be capable of enforcing access controls based on trusted endpoints through intergation 
with device Management or endpoint security platforms. 
GEM/2025/B/6835803                Bid Corrigendum - 2 (Amendment)
Read As / Clarification
The Secure Web Gateway must provide an option to redirect specific Government/Other Internet Websites via 
dedicated Egress IPs provided by SSE OEM exclusively for NTPC in all of  its SSE Cloud Data Centres in India. 
Aditionally the solution should be able to redirect internet Traffic ( for 1000 Nodes) via NTPC Public IPs from DC 
Noida and DR Hyderabad.
Any software, hardware & license etc required to meet the functionality must be included in the offer
The solution must have the capability to use new-age technologies like Artifical Intelligence and Machine Learning 
to understand sensitive documents and protect against data leakages over web channel from day 1. 
The solution should have capability to use the AI and ML Engines to detect and prevent data leakages happening 
over Web Channel via Screenshots, Images etc. 
The Solution should be able to do real-time monitoring of prompts for sensitive information uploaded via file or text 
uploads and detect sensitive data enforcing policies to monitor, block or alert before data leaves the organization, 
covering endpoints, networks, and cloud thru SSE solution.
Considering the increased usage of Generative AI, all existing and future capabilities as available in the Solution 
must be able to apply control on Generative AI Applications ( i.e ChatGPT, Gemini and similar platforms.)
Note: Further any requests thru email, shall not be entertained