NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPARTMENT 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
SECTION-I  
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
NIT NO. 9900314050 
GePNIC Tender 
No. 2025_NTPC_101524_1 
NAME OF 
WORK 
CONSTRUCTION OF OFFICE CUM RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX 
FOR ER-1HQ AT PATNA - BALANCE WORK. 
 
1.0 NTPC invites on -line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis  (Envelope-I: 
Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from E ligible Bidders for aforesaid 
package- as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
Brief Scope of  Work: The scope of work under this contract includes 
CONSTRUCTION OF OFFICE CUM RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX FOR ER -1HQ AT 
PATNA - BALANCE WORK . -as per BOQ, detailed scope o f work, Specification, 
Terms and Conditions, drawings and instruction of Engineer -in-Charge as detailed in 
the tender document. 
 
    Project/Station where work to be executed: NTPC ER1-HQ, Patna 
 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Domestic Com mercial 
Borrowings/Own sources. 
 
2.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the 
bidding document, which are available for examination and sale at our e  
Procurement Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following 
details & schedule: 
 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group-1, Raipur 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT  
NIT Date 18.11.2025. 
Document Download Commencement 
Date & Time 
18.11.2025; 18:00 Hrs. 
Last date for receipt o f queries from 
bidders (if any) 
25.11.2025; 16:00 Hrs. 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission 02.12.2025; 16:00 Hrs. 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 03.12.2025; 16:00 Hrs. 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately.  
Estimated Cost floated for tender  Rs. 495.90 Lakh (Excluding GST) 
Rs. 585.16Lakh (Including GST @ 
18%) 
 
Owner Issue Material: Nil 
Cost of Bidding Documents  (Tender 
fee)  
 
Nil 
Bid Security/EMD  Rs. 5,00,000.00  
 
IN THE FORM OF (a) ONLINE 
THROUGH PORTAL  OR (b)  BANK 
GUARANTEE (BG) OR (c)  
INSURANCE SURETY BOND 
 
Exemption not allowed 
 
INTEGRITY PACT NOT APPLICABLE  
Benefit to MSME This is a WORKS CONTRACT. MSE 
Benefit is   NOT APPLICABLE for 
the Package.  
Pre-Bid Conference Date/TIME  
 
Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Purchase Preference to Local 
Suppliers/Preference to Make in India 
Class-I local suppliers only are 
eligible to participate in this tender, 
as defined in the bidding 
documents/Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ 
revisions issued by DPIIT. 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified above. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the  Bidders shall  submit “ Techno-
Commercial Proposal ” and “Price Proposal”  online 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within the bid submission date and time. 
Only Techno-Commercial proposals will be opened on the date and timed mentioned 
above or corrigendum/s (if any) thereof.  
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder 
from https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app 
  
Corrigendum (if any) and extension of date (if any), shall be available on our e-tender 
website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
 
 
3.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security Deposit  / EMD  in the form as 
stipulated in the Bidding documents in Clause 10 of Bid Data Sheet (BDS)- Sec III  
 
      Additional option for submission of BG directly from the banker is also provided - 
REFER BDS-SECTION III Clause no 7.0 A, for further details. 
 
Online facility for submitting the bid security is enabled.  
 
Bid Security /EMD up to Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees TWO Lac only) must be paid 
online through GePNIC portal ONLY. 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of 
e-BG through NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e -BG, due to some practical 
difficulties or constraints, physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG/  
Insurance Surety bond as bid security , if opted for, should be submitted in a 
separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for correspondence  
((Clause-16 hereunder)) before the bid submission deadline in physical form 
and scanned copy of BG// Insurance Surety must be uploaded in the FEE folder 
in the tendering portal. 
 
EMD is not exempted in this tender being a works contract. Bidders are 
advised NOT to  upload MSE/other document for availing exemption. Bids 
without adequate Bid Security and Tender fee, as per tender provisions, shall 
be outrightly rejected. 
 
4.0 Bidder has to  ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to 
ITB Clause 1 1 read in conjunction with relevant provisions in bid data sheet, 
failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: As applicable (Non-Refundable, to be deposited online only) 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security  
 
c) Integrity Pact ( if applicabl e- REFER BDS -SECTION III FOR FURTHER 
DETAILS) 
 
All bids must be accompanied by Tender Fees (Cost of Bidding Documents) , Bid 
Security (EMD) and Integrity Pact (if applicable) AS PER TENDER PROVISIONS. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY A S PER 
TENDER PROVISIONS SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING 
NON-RESPONSIVE.  
 
IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF 
E-BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN THE E -TENDERING 
PORTAL. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS: 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated here under     
 
5.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
5.1.1 The bidder should have executed the civil work(s) for ‘Construction/ Renovation/ 
Interior’ of Building(s) within the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening, for an executed value not less than 397.00 Lakhs, 
cumulatively, in maximum Three Contracts. 
Notes for Clause 5.1 above: 
 
1. For 1.1 above, one reference work shall mean the work executed at one premises/ 
campus through a single contract. 
 
2. In Case, reference work order submitted for the  purpose of qualification under 1.1 
above includes the works of “Associated Elec trical, HVAC System, fire detection and 
Protection System, IT works” the executed value of these works shall also be 
considered for the purpose of calculation of “executed value” for meeting the QR 
criteria 1.1 above. 
 
3. The word “Executed" mentioned above m eans that the bidder should have achieved 
the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/ or is not 
completed/ closed. 
 
4. In case of orders under  execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of 
Techno- Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered 
acceptable. 
 
5. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub -contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying 
the scop e of work executed by the sub -contractor in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
 
6. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall 
be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break 
– up of basic value and taxes. 
 
7. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture / Consortium 
/ Associate can also be considered provided: 
 
a. The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures / 
consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture agreement / 
consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the bidder's scope of work 
and break -up of quantities executed  by them as individual contribution in the joint 
Venture / Consortium / Associat e, duly authenticated by the Project 
Authority/Owner, meet the relevant provisions of eligibility criteria. 
 
b. In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated joint 
venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break -up of quantities between the 
partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for 
establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria of 1.1 above, the  credit of 
executed quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio  of bidder's share in 
the integrated joint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder establishes that it 
regularly undertakes works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the 
integrated joint venture shall be duly authenticated by the Project Authority/owner. 
 
5.2 Financial Criteria:  
 
5.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, shall not be less than Rs. 496.00 Lakhs 
(Four Crore and Ninety-six lakh only). 
 
5.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 2.1 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at Cl. No. 2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such 
Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In such 
an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno- 
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from t he Holding Company, supported 
by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the 
Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the contract by the bidder in case of award. 
 
5.2.3 Net worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of 
its paid -up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial year 
reckoned from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening. 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on i ts own, it can meet 
the requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies , 
wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding 
Companies, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid 
up share capital. However individu ally, their Net worth should not be less than 
75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% (Seventy-
Five Percentage) of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual 
paid up share capitals. 
 
5.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements 
on stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
of the bidder can be con sidered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial sta tements of the 
Holding Company. 
 
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsol idated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company. 
 
5.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of 
Techno-commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified 
by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered 
for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that 
the financial results of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno -
commercial bid opening a nd the certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for Clause 5.2 above: 
 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credite d out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit 
and Loss account and miscellaneous expens es to the extent not adjusted or written 
off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act of India. 
6.0  Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess 
the credentials/ capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ 
subsidiaries / group  companies to perform the con tract, should the circumstances 
warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer.  
 
        The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but 
not be limited to the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted 
reference works in lieu of credentials. A negative determination of such assessment 
of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid 
 
 
7.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender,  as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 
and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may 
apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
Further it is hereby certified that all the guidelines circulated by NTPC in pursuance 
of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) ‘PPP -MII’ Orders of DPIIT/MoP 
have been complied for the tendered package and NIT. 
 
8.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
9.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the 
subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.  
 
10.0 NTPC reserves right to amend any bid/tender  conditions through appropriate 
CORRIGENDUMS published in the portal AT ANY TIME. NTPC also reserves the 
right to extend/change the biddi ng schedule through publishing necessary 
CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situa tion demands so AT ANY TIME. The 
corrigendum as decided by NTPC and deeme d fit would be published in the  portal 
as per provisions therein. This prevails over the relevant provisions elsewhere in   
the bid document. The corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal 
will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed that the information contained 
therein have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders are a dvised to 
regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendum, if any. 
 
11.0 Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is 
considered to be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address 
given below in the presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the 
bid opening. 
 
12.0 The bid document consists of the followings:  
 
SI Name of Documents Nature 
1 Section-I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice 
Inviting Tender (NIT) 
Tender Specific 
2 Section-II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  Standard Documents 
3 Section-III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) Tender Specific 
4 Section-IV General Conditions of Contract 
(GCC) 
Standard Documents 
5 Section-V Special Conditions of Contract 
(SCC) 
Tender Specific 
6 Section-VI Technical Specifications/Scope of 
Work, Drawings, Quality Plans etc. 
Tender Specific 
7 Section-VII BOQ / Price Bid Tender Specific 
8 Section-VIII Forms and Procedures Standard Documents 
9 Attachment-3 (QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
DATA SHEET) 
Tender Specific 
 
13.0 IMPORTANT NOTES FOR THE TENDER: 
 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET with Appendices & annexures (ATTACHED 
Separately for The Package as Bid Document ) is to be filled up properly as 
per format given for the stipulated QR parameters and to be submitted in 
the bid at appropriate file/folder provided for the purpose . The reference 
works whose details have been declared in Attachment -3 AND/OR in the 
submitted bid shall only be considered  to ascertain the bidder's compliance to 
the specified qualifying Requirement (QR).  
 
LATEST PROVISIONS FOR “ AUTHENTICATION OF VERACITY OF 
DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED BY THE BIDDER IN SUPPORT OF  QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENT” HAS BEEN INCORPORATED IN CLAUSE NO 6.2 OF Bid 
Data Sheet  (Section III - BDS). AUTHENTICATED  DOCUMENTS (AS 
APPLICABLE- from Independent Statutory Auditor of BIDDER/ or specified 
Third-Party Inspectio n Agency (TPIA) ) IN LINE WITH  THE SAID 
PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED. 
 
Further Appendices & annexures/ declarations attached into Attachment -3; 
relevant to the bidders as per format are also to be submitted.  
 
b) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONE D IN Bid Data Sheet  
(Section III - BDS) shall amend and/or supplement the provisions in the 
Instructions to Bidders (Section II - ITB). Wherever there is a conflict, the 
provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
c) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC ), Section -V, shall supplement/ amend the 
General Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section -IV of Standard Bidding 
Document, wherever there is a conflict, the provisions in SCC shal l prevail over 
those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
d) UDIN: Any Certifi cate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and 
P&L Account (wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute 
of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of 
compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR ), will carry Unique Document 
Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
 It is mandatory to mention UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) by the 
bidders while submitting audited financial statements, other CA certificates etc. 
w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette notification dt. 02.08.2019. 
 
e) THIS IS A NO DEVIATION TENDER, WHICH MEANS - NO DEVIATION, 
WHATSOEVER, IS PERMITTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO ANY PROVISIONS 
OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS. 
 
 GTE PROVISION IN THE BID SUBMISSION PROCESS IN TENDERING 
PLATFORM IS TO BE ACCEPTED FOR NO DEVIATION/ FULL COMPLIANCE 
TO THE BID DOCUMENTS. ACCEPTANCE TO THE SAID GTE WOULD 
CONFIRM THAT THE BIDDER HAVE ACCEPTED ALL THE TE RMS AND 
CONDITIONS OF THE BID DOCUMENT. 
 
14.0 The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Documents 
may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website  
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be required to register on the website. 
  
         First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the requi red details. Users whose 
email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first time 
users not  allotted any vendor code by NTPC, should send a copy of the 
registration details to the e -mail address specified in this NIT under Address fo r 
Communication with following details at least three working days prior to 
Technical Opening Date: 
  
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form (refer Section VIII) duly verified by bank  
 
15.0   Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is 
not permissible. 
  
16.0     Address for Communication 
DGM/AGM (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492018 
 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515568/ 2515240 
 
Email: pankajkumar07@ntpc.co.in   / rhshankarrao@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or 
www.ntpc.co.in 
           Registered Office:  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 