1 | P a g e  
 
 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A Joint Venture of NTPC Ltd. & SAIL)  
NOTICE INVITING TENDER  
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING)  
NIT NO. : 0230/ SSC/CS/OT/28/2025-26/2800010101    Dated: 19/11/2025 
NSPCL-Bhilai invites tenders for following package  of CPP-II Rourkela. : 
Sl. 
No. 
Pkg. No.  Description of Work  Estimated 
Value (Rs)  
Cost of 
Tender 
Document 
(Rs.)  
Contract  
Period  
Sale Start 
Date / 
Sale Close 
Date 
Last Date 
& Time 
for 
Receipt 
of Bid  
EMD(Rs)  
01 
SSC/ 
25132 
LEFT OVER WORK OF EPC 
PACKAGE BALANCE ROAD, 
APPROACHES, DRAIN, WATCH 
TOWER WORK OF EPC 
PROJECT 1X250 MW AT THE 
RISK AND COST 
  
1,15,75,686.29/- 
2655/- 
(Online 
tender 
form) 
06 Months  19/11/25 01/12/25 
15:00Hrs  2,00,000/- 26/11/25 
Tender Documents can be downloaded from SRM Portal:  https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal after 
paying Tender Fee amount of Rs. 2655 (Rs.2250.00 + Rs. 405.00 GST@18%).  
Online Tender fee/EMD submission Procedure help document can be accessed at link - “SRM Online TFE & EMD 
Payment Manual” on SRM Portal website: -   https://www.nspcl.co.in/pages/nspcl-srm-portal. 
Abridged NIT along with Qualifying Requirement may be viewed at www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in.  The details of tender for e -
bidding shall be available at https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal (RFx/NIT No.: 2800010101). 
Tender document fee/EMD should be submitted  online. Tender Fee and EMD can also be paid offline in the form of  
Demand Draft / Pay Order / Banker's Cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payable at Bhilai  
and is to be submitted at following address: 
AGM(SSC-C&M), NSPCL  Bhilai –Expansion Site, Near Purena Village, PO-Bhilai (East)  Distt. - Durg, C.G. 490021  Tel.: 
0788-2347063.  
 
Instruction for e-bidding:  
1. The bidder must have Digital Signature Certificate (Class-III). 
2. The bidders who already have valid SRM User ID:  
a) Login the SRM Portal and click on RFx and Auction button. 
b) Rfx will be available to view for all the bidders which are already having valid SRM User ID’s.  
c) Interested bidders have to register first against the Bid invitation by clicking on “Register” button place d   into Rfx 
header segment. 
d) Once Registration step & Tender fee submission is done by bidder and the tender fee received by the NSPCL and 
updated into the system then Bidder could be able to “Create Response” and submit the bids against the Bid invitat ion   
into the system.  
3. New Bidders who are not having SAP/ERP Vendor Code and / or SRM User ID:  
a) In case a new bidder wants to participate for a particular Bid invitation in SRM portal, the bidder first of all has to 
submit the filled Registration F orm & EFT Form along with required supporting documents e.g. as specified in forms, 
till 22.11.2025 to C&M department, NSPCL Bhilai in hard copy or scanned copy through e -mail at or 
ushakumai@nspcl.co.in or sudeepk.das@nspcl.co.in 
b) C&M department will initiate the process for vendor ID creation in SAP & send the bidder’s SRM Credentials (User 
ID along with initial Password) to them. 
c) After creation of SRM Credentials the step 2 (above) shall be followed by the bidder.  
2 | P a g e  
 
All Corrigendum/Modifications/Updates for the above NITs shall only be published on the aforesaid web sites .  
For any Technical Support, please contact SRM helpdesk at 0788-2282414. 
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work: LEFT OVER WORK OF EPC PACKAGE BALANCE ROAD, APPROACHES, DRAIN, WATCH 
TOWER WORK OF EPC PROJECT 1X250 MW AT THE RISK AND COST 
 
 
1.0 Qualifying Requirement 
The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they 
fulfil the following Qualifying Requirements. 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
1.1.1 The bidder should have executed “Similar Works” within the preceding last seven (07) years 
reckoned as on the  date of Techno Commercial Bid opening with either of the following: - 
a) 01 (One) order having executed value not less than Rs. 92.60 lakhs 
OR 
b) 02 (Two) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 57.87 lakhs each. 
OR 
c) 03 (Three) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 46.30 lakhs each. 
Note Similar Works Meaning: The bidder should have executed Civil work of any type of civil 
works, Building Construction, Civil Maintenance, RCC work ,Concrete Road ,Construction of 
shed ,EPC Construction work, Bridge Construction etc. 
For clause no. 1.1.1 as above: 
i. The word "executed" means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria including 
value as mentioned in above QR within the preceding seven (07) years as on date of techno 
commercial bid opening period even if the contract has been started earlier and /or is not 
completed / closed. 
ii. The reference works executed by the bidder's group company / subsidiary company shall 
not be considered for meeting the qualifying requirements by the bidder. 
iii. Reference work executed by a bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by a main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority 
specifying the scope and value of work executed by the subcontractor in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
iv. Necessary documentary evidence including client certificate in support of execution of the 
work to be submitted along with Techno-Commercial bid. 
v. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount without tax only 
shall be considered, in case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the breakup 
of basic value and taxes. 
vi. Reference works executed by the applicant, as a member of joint Venture / Consortium / 
Associate can also be considered provided: a) The allocation of scope of work between the 
partners of the joint Ventures / consortium  agreement / Associate is clearly defined in the 
executed joint venture agreement / consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and 
the applicant's scope of work and break-up of quantities executed by them as individual 
contribution in the joint Venture / Consortium / Associate, duly authenticated by the Project 
Authority/Owner, meet the relevant provisions of eligibility criteria. 
 b) In case the reference work has been executed by the applicant in an integrated joint 
venture wherein allocation of scope of work and breakup of quantities between the partners 
is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for establishing the 
eligibility as per technical criteria mentioned above, the credit of executed quantities can be 
claimed by the applicant in the ratio of applicant's share in the integrated joint Venture 
Agreement, provided the applicant establishes that it regularly undertakes works mentioned 
in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture shall be duly 
authenticated by the Project 
Authority/owner.  
C) Experience in JV/consortium with equity participation less than 10% shall not be 
considered. 
3 | P a g e  
 
1.2.0 Financial Criteria 
1.2.1 1.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than Rs. 115.75 Lakhs 
(Rupees One Fifteen lacs Fifty One Thousand only) Lakhs. 
1.2.2 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno 
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the 
certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required 
from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno commercial bid opening and 
the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters 
is not available. 
 
 
 
 
NIT Conditions 
 
Bid documents will be issued to all the parties on their request (cost of tender document to be made by a crossed 
demand draft / pay order / banker's cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payable at 
Bhilai).Tender Documents can be do wnloaded from SRM Portal:  https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal 
after paying Tender Fee amount of  Rs. 2655 (Rs.2250.00 + Rs. 405.00 GST@18%) online also,  for issue of bid 
documents without prima -facie examination of their qualification stat us. However, issue of bid documents shall not 
mean that bidders are considered qualified. Tender document fee will not be refunded. Request for tender documents 
received after the last date as mentioned above due to delays postal/courier services shall not  be entertained. 
 
1. NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
2. Agencies are advised to visit the site to familiarize themselves with the nature of work and 
the site conditions. 
 
3. If the last date of receiving application and date of bid opening coincide with a holiday, the 
date will be shifted to the next working day. 
 
4. BEING WORKS CONTRACT,MSE BENEFIT IS NOT APPLICABLE. . 
5) Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which 
Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document 
Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI).  
“Bidders are require d to furnish the details of the past experience like authentic Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, client certificates, completion 
certificate, Finacial Details etc. in support of meeting the Qualifying Requirements based on w hich 
selection is to be made as per format  in Attachment -3 FORM FOR QUALIFICATION DETAILS . ( 
mandatory)  
No change in the price or substance of the bid including substitution of Purchase Orders/Contracts declared 
in Attachment-3 of the bid with new/additional Purchase Orders/Contracts for conforming to Qualifying 
Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted.  
 
 If any of the Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements pertains to the 
work executed by Bidder for NSPCL in the past, then in respect of such Work Orders/Purchase 
4 | P a g e  
 
Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, Bidder shall not be required to enclose Client 
Certificate along with its Bid.” 
 
 
    i) All the bidders are required to submit the details of the past experiences, s hall submit all the 
documents, in support of Technical Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ 
Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity 
from Independent Statutory Auditor  of their Company or specified Third -Party Inspection Agency 
(TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Bidders can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Audi tor 
certifying the data required for meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
 ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their Statutory 
Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR a long with a certificate regarding 
verification of authenticity of documents as per the format placed at Annexure -II (Appendix -1 to 
Attachment-3 - Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ or Annexure-III (Appendix-2 to Attachment-3 - 
Undertaking from TPIA).  All the documents submitted by the bidder in support of meeting Technical 
QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
 
       iii) In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the verificatio n and 
certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIAs:  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18) TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not certified 
by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the  format enclosed with the bidding 
documents, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be 
liable for rejection. 
 
    iv) The Bidder shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials in support of Qu alifying 
Requirements verified & certified by their Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs 
pertaining to third party verification and certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be borne 
by the Bidder. Employer shall have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall not be 
liable for any claim/ dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor. 
 
Address for communication:  
AGM (SSC-C&M) 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED,  
5 | P a g e  
 
Post Office: BHILAI (East), Distt. : Durg (CHHATTISGARH), Pin: 490 021 
 : 0788–2282446, 2347063 Email:  ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in , ushakumari@nspcl.co.in 
 
 
 
Other terms and conditions will be intimated in tender documents. 