DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900314030 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
1 of 4 
NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)  
FOR 
Construction of Boundary Wall at NTPC Talcher Stage III 
LOCATED AT 
Talcher Thermal Power Station 
P.O. Talcher Thermal -759101, Odisha . 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:  9900314030,    
GePNIC_ID:2025_NTPC_102394_1  
 Date: 25.11.2025 
1.0 NTPC Limited  invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 " Construction of Boundary Wall at NTPC Talcher Stage III " 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through Domestic/ Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB 25.11.2025 
Documents Download Date and Time From 26.11.2025 
Last Date of receipt of queries from 
prospective bidders 
07.12.2025 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time Not Applicable 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price)  
Up to 1500 hrs (IST) on 29.12.2025 
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
30.12.2025 at 1500 hrs (IST) 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Not Applicable 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900314030 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
2 of 4 
 
 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e -tender) portal of NTPC for  updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above. 
 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 5,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Five Lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -
BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
5.1  Acceptable Tender Fee payment proof shall be uploaded by all the bidder in the “Fee 
Cover” at the GePNIC Portal. 
 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at          
Annexure-1 to IFB.  
 
7.0       Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
 
8.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited under e -tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ using the 
option “online Bidder Enrolment”. The said website also has the detailed guidelines on 
enrolment and participation in the bidding process including Bidder Manual for online fee 
payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
10.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900314030 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
3 of 4 
 
 
submission of their bids. 
             
11.0    Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
  
12.0   Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is 
considered to be qualified. 
 
13.0    Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
14.0 Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (CS) / AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA   
Pin - 201 301 
 
Tel. No.: 0120 4946581, 4946535  
E-mail: kailashkumawat@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or  
www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or  
www.ntpc.co.in 
 
15.0    Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
 
 ANNEXURE-I to IFB  
Qualifying Requirements (QR) for “Construction of Boundary Wall at Talcher 
Thermal Power Station Stage III” . 
 
1.0.0 Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1.0 The bidder should have successfully executed/completed work of  building 
construction (Residential / Non -residential / Industrial / Commercial ) and/or 
Boundary Wall which should include Masonry Works and/or Concrete work in the 
preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on the date of Techno -commercial bid 
opening for Government Organization or Public/Private sector organization. 
 
                                              AND 
 
1.2.0 The bidder should have successfully executed / completed similar works (as 
mentioned at Clause 1.1.0) in the last 07 (seven) years from the last day of month 
previous to one in which NIT has been invited and should be either of the following: 
 
a) One similar completed/executed work of value not less than INR 3.90 Crores. 
OR 
b) Two similar completed/executed work of value not less than INR 2.43 Crores. 
OR 
c) Three similar completed/executed work of value not less than INR 1.95 Crores. 
 
NOTES FOR 1.0.0: 
 
(i) The value of executed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at 
current price level by adding 5% for each completed year (total number of days/365) 
after the end date of completion/execution of the reference work, till the last day of 
month previous to one in which NIT has been invited. The specified value of executed 
works is excluding any taxes and duties. 
(ii) The word “executed/ completed” means: 
a. In case of Contract(s), the scope of work under the contract(s) should have 
been executed /completed, even if the contract has been started earlier and / 
or is not closed. 
 
(iii) Work executed by a Bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided 
the certificate issued by main contractor, duly certified by Project Authority, 
specifying the Scope of Work executed by the sub -contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements. Pro ject Authority means the owner of the project with 
whom the main contractor is engaged. 
 
 
 
2.0.0 Financial Criteria: 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder  
2.1.1  The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening, should not be less than INR 4.87 
Crores or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company 
as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be 
required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from 
the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per 
the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable 
financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.1.2  Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder does 
not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth 
based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, however 
the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 
100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their 
Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid 
up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
2.1.3  In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of 
techno commercial bid opening are not available, certification of financial statements 
from a practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable.  In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per th e 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters 
is not available. 
NOTES FOR 2.0.0: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) days 
prior to the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 