Annexure- 6 
Page 1 of 9 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
FOR 
 
Issue of Pond Ash on Free of Cost, first come First Served Basis with Transportation by 
User, from NTPC Khargone 
 
Ref No. EOI No. NTPC/Khargone/AU/Pond Ash/Nov/2025 Date: 28.11.2025 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information. 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI. 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by User. 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B. 
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled  in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the user, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified documents on or 
before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
Annexure- 6 
Page 2 of 9 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NTPC Khargone: 
Both units of NTPC, Khargone have been put into operation after declaration of COD on 01.02.2020 & 
04.04.2020, according to the installed capacity of NTPC, Khargone, Stage-I achieved 1320 MW with      effect 
from 04.04.2020. Accordingly, around 4500-5000 MT of Ash is being generated on daily basis. The  residual 
Ash after Utilization is being sent to Ash Dyke for Storage. Expected Pond Ash quantity for EOI is 3.85 
LMT for next one year from Dec’2025 to Nov’2026. 
To utilize the Pond Ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF & CC  
Gazette Notification and promote utilization of Pond Ash as resource material, NTPC Khargone intends  
to issue some of its Pond Ash through EOI on free of cost and on first come first served basis , with 
transportation cost being borne by the User. 
To facilitate this, NTPC Khargone invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 01 (One) year, 
from its 2 X 660 MW units. Further details regarding this Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follows: - 
 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Khargone invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Users, for utilization of  
pond ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification, in the prescribed formats (Part-2 & 
Part-3). 
Total quantity of fly ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details given  
hereunder. 
Power Stations / Location Total Quantity Offered for EoI Period of Supply 
NTPC Ltd, Khargone 
Village: Selda, P.O.: Khedi (Bujurg), 
Dist.: Khargone - 451113 (MP). 
 
3.85 LMT 
                01 year 
(Dec’2025 to Nov’2026) 
 
How to apply 
Interested Users desirous of receiving pond ash from NTPC Khargone as per the terms and conditions of 
this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents and duly filled in enclosed 
“Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “ Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by User” 
to the E – Mail address aukhargone@ntpc.co.in on or before 17:00 hrs. of 08.12.2025. 
Contact Nos: 9650993988/8351803415. 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “Part 3: 
Undertaking and Declaration by User”: 
1. GST registration may be applicable. 
2. Company registration as may be applicable. 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary proof as 
applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and authentic. 
Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
Annexure- 6 
Page 3 of 9 
 
 
Allocation of pond ash Quantity: - 
 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI, pond ash shall be allocated to various users free of cost 
and on a first come first served basis, till the available quantity is exhausted. However, collecting ash from 
NTPC`s issue location and transportation, thereafter, will be in the scope of the user only. 
 
In case the same User gets some allocation against both the Auction Process and this EoI, then the Ash 
quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that User, only after the User completes the lifting of 
the allocation against the Auction Process. 
 
 
Daily allocation of pond ash shall be done as given below: 
 
1. All successful users shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day-wise requested 
quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month. 
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability. NTPC shall determine  
and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous month. 
3. All allocated users (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above schedule and 
mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non -mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate such  
quantity to alternate user(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC)-NTPC shall be final 
and binding in this regard. 
 
Pond ash shall be issued from the Ash Dyke as decided by EIC of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is 
where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful User shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with submission of 
LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Pond Ash Allocation Process, at the rate 
of Rs.1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for ensuring commitment of  the 
Successful User(s) for lifting the allocated Pond Ash. An amount at the rate of Rs.1.00 / MT of un - lifted 
quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This adjusted 
SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of entire allocated  
quantity, whichever is earlier. 
Annexure- 6 
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the User) 
(To be submitted by the User along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue of pond ash from Ash Dyke, NTPC Limited Khargone 
 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the User  
 
2. 
 
Status (Company / Individual / Partnership firm) 
 
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Nature of Business:  
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous Financial 
Year 
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling pond ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Annexure- 6 
Page 5 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No. 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
Pond ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
 
Figures: 
 
 
Words: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond ash 
Auction Process from same station (Yes/No). 
 
If yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
 
Address of the location where User proposes to 
transport fly ash if issued. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF & CC`s Gazette 
Notification in which the user proposes to utilize the 
pond ash, if issued. 
SN Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
Annexure- 6 
Page 6 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
 
11 
 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of    
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
Signature: 
(Authorized Representative) 
Name: 
Designation: 
Annexure- B 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 7 of 9 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by 
User 
 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
 
UNDERTAKING 
 
I / We (Name of the firm / individual) hereby certify that I 
/ we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI requirements and accept all terms and conditions of 
the EoI including those contained in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity 
with all the terms and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the  event of 
allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered as part and parcel of the LOA / 
LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / Semi – Government / 
Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have been convicted of violating applicable 
law. 
In case of Pond Ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to procedures for collection 
of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while 
inside the Plant, Mobilization of adequate number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation  
arrangement conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out the  
above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding safety, environment, 
sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable statutory requirements for, and in  
connection with the execution of the contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agenci es working in the area as directed by EIC  
with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting and utilization of Pond ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries from any liability,  
whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ 
Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or  
commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization Avenues as identified in  
extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual  
Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes / Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / we fail to execute the  
contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true and authentic to the best 
of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any stage, the information furnished is found 
to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for disqualification from this EoI and also liable for any other penal 
action that may arise due to the above. 
Annexure- B 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 8 of 9 
 
 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for pond ash tie-up/ agreement. 
 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the EoI. NTPC will, in  
no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct or outcome of the assessment /  
evaluation process. 
 
 
3. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, to the parties who have submitted all requisite  
documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of submission of interest. Receipt of request will 
be treated as received on receipt of all specified documents only. 
 
4. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount at  
the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable as per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non -receipt of LOA / 
LOI acceptance along  with requisite security deposit and  other specified  documents required by the  
respective station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the pond ash allocation to me / us. 
 
 
5. (Applicable for parties allocated pond ash through auction process also from same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We understand that if  
additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis through this EoI, it shall be mandatory 
on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated 
against this EoI will be issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
 
 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Name ……………………………… 
……………………………………… 
Place: …………………….             Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
Name of the Company: …….……. 
…………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
…………………………………….…. 
Company Seal: …..………………… 
………….…………………………….. 
Annexure- B 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 9 of 9 
 
 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and 
General Guidelines: 
 
1. Pond ash shall be issued from the Ash Dyke as decided by EIC, to the Successful Users (or 
their authorized representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC based on approval 
by HOP), considering Operational and Safety issues of Ash dyke. 
2. Users shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, Procedures, Safety norms, 
Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines etc and carry out their activities in full compliance 
with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from TPP. 
4. General facilitating measures for lifting of Pond Ash viz. Common Approach / ramp, general  
area fugitive dust suppression, weighment of Ash etc shall be in the scope of NTPC. However, 
job specific facilitation viz. approach / ramp to specific allocated area and local fugitive dust  
suppression shall be in the scope of the recipient agency. 
5. Users eligible for collecting Pond ash shall apply for permission for the closed / covered Trucks 
/ other suitable transportation medium that they propose to deploy and submit the  same to 
EIC along with specified documents like registration, license, insurance etc, who shall  arrange 
to verify the same and issue permission as per prevailing procedure adopted at the Station. 
6. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule the lifting of Ash from 
Designated storage area by different agencies, which shall be binding upon the agencies. The 
schedules and deployment may be worked out / altered based on periodic meetings between 
concerned stakeholders. Agencies shall mobilize with adequate manpower, vehicles and  
machinery within 15 days of issue of communication from the EIC. 
7. T&Ps, excavation, loading and transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the agency(s). 
8. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Users and verifiable by TPP. 
9. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination of contract /  
agreement / issue of Pond ash as decided by EIC 
10. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful User(s). 
11. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed Vehicles shall be  
submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new and / or additional vehicles are  
deployed) and thereafter as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles  
shall be in fit condition for safe operation. 
12. Successful Users shall submit an affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value,  
certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond ash, in adherence with the provisions of the 
extant Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed  
format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
13. In case of any liability on TPP, in  any manner that arises due to non -compliance of any  
Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the  
successful User or its representative / agent, during execution and for future obligations (if  
any) by way of omi ssion or commission, the Successful User shall keep TPP effectively  
indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity bond shall be submitted before start of 
lifting of Ash. 
14. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case information / details 
provided are found false even at a later date. 
 