(Page 1 of 448) 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
SHARED SERVICES CENTRE – CMHQ-RANCHI 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT. 
NO
TICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
FOR 
PACKAGE: Deployment of one (01) Crawler/Chain-mounted Excavator  (Minimum 
Bucket Capacity of 2 CuM) for a period of 12 months at Kerandari Coal Mining Project
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Mode of Tendering: Open Tender 
NIT NO.: - Refer GeM Bid No. - DATE : 27.11.2025 
I. NTPC invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-
I: Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from Eligible Bidders on Open
tender basis for afore -mentioned package as per Scope of Work mentioned
hereinafter.
II. Brief Scope of Work:
D
eployment of the following equipment for 12 months, which can be extended up to 3
m
onths at same rate/terms and condition and as per the requirement of NTPC Ltd:
• Crawler/Chain-mounted Excavator (Minimum Bucket Capacity of 2 CuM)
- 01 No
The purchase /supply/transportation of fuel (diesel) shall be in bidder scope, NTPC 
will reimburse the cost of diesel extra @ 27.5 litres/hour of actual running of the 
equipment at prevailing market price (preferably the rates at nearby petrol pump from 
KDCMP) through documentary evidence for rate. 
D
etailed Scope shall be as per Technical Specification / Terms of Reference. 
III. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Own Resources.
IV. Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the
bidding document, which are available on-line at GeM Portal ( https://gem.gov.in/) as
per the following schedule:
(Page 2 of 11) 
 
 
GeM Tender Reference No. As per online portal 
Date of issue of NIT As per online portal 
Downloading of Bidding Document Refer website 
https://gem.gov.in/ Pre-Bid Conference date 
Last date for receipt of queries on Bidding 
Documents from Bidders (No Queries from Bidders, 
whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queries) 
Last date & Time for submission of online bids 
Date and Time for opening of Techno- 
Commercial bids 
Opening of Price Bids 
Bid Security (EMD) Rs. 1,00,000/-  
Bid Security (EMD) submission mode Online 
Pre-Bid Conference Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
Minimum Percentage towards compliance of 
safety aspect 
Shall not be less than 2% of 
the cumulative total of Service 
Portion of the Contract. 
Evaluation criteria Package wise Evaluation 
Splitting of Quantity Not Applicable 
Contract Category (As per SCC clause 27 and 
GCC Sub-Clause 45.2) 
Contracts Other than 
overhauling 
Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the 
website https://gem.gov.in/ 
 
V. Bidder has to furnish the EMD in a sealed envelope separately offline along with 
other documents mentioned in the tender documents by the stipulated bid 
submission closing date and time at the address given below in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the bidding documents. 
 
Bid security up to Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lac only) must be through Electronic 
Fund Transfer (EFT). 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER 
AS BEING NON- RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
AS E-BG / THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO 
SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY 
EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING 
PORTAL. 
 
VI. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
Qualifying Requirements is enclosed at Annexure- I to NIT 
 
VII. Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L 
Account (wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance 
to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
VIII. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may 
be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the Gem Portal  https://gem.gov.in. 
The Bidder would be required to register on the website. 
 
No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
IX. Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
(Page 3 of 11) 
 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may 
apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
X. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
XI. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
XII. Downloading / Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such 
bidder is considered to be qualified. 
 
XIII. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the 
subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
XIV. Address for Communication/Location of Bid opening 
Manager (C&M) / DGM (C&M) 
Shared Services Centre – Coal Mining HQ 
NTPC Limited, 
C/o NML NTPC Mining Ltd., 
Ramkeshi Heights, 
Plot No. 123, Old A.G. Colony, 
Kadru, Ranchi - 834002 
Mob.: 9861136329 / 9445002640 
E-mail: monalishaparida@ntpc.co.in / veerasuresh@ntpc.co.in 
 
Registered Office: 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area, 
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI00796 
 
XV. User/Indenter Detail:   
  
 At NTPC, Kerandari CMP :   
  
Sh. PRIYANSHU KATTA,  
                Engineer (Mining),  
Mob: 7073383321  
Email: priyanshu@ntpc.co.in 
(Page 4 of 11) 
 
Annexure- I to NIT 
 
Qualifying Requirements 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria 
 
The Bidder must have experience of works (includes completed / ongoing contracts) of similar 
nature (as per the definition of similar nature works given below) within the preceding seven (07) 
years reckoned as on the date of Techno Commercial Bid Opening with either of the following. 
 
(a) Single order with executed value not less than Rs. 66 Lakh 
or 
(b) Two orders with executed value not less than Rs 41 Lakh each 
or 
(c) Three orders with executed value not less than Rs 33 Lakh each 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0 
 
i. Similar work means either fulfilling the conditions of (a) or/and (b) or/and (c).  
 
a. Handling of coal/ soil/ rocks/ ash/ stone/ rejects or any solid mineral using Plant and 
Machinery equipment in mine or in any industry. 
 
b. Deployment of Heavy equipment’s essentially comprising of crawler/chain -mounted 
excavator in mine or in any industry. 
 
c. Supply of material handling equipment like crusher, sizer etc. 
 
ii. The bidder should have achieved the above specified eligibility criteria during last seven (7) years 
as on date of Techno-commercial bid opening even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is 
not completed /closed.  
 
iii. Executed Value means basic value (excluding taxes) of the Purchase Order/Work Order/Agreement 
pertaining to work executed, as defined above. Where Purchase Order/Work Order/Agreement 
value is composite, the bidder shall give break -up of Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, 
taxes etc. 
 
iv. In case the bidder has executed any reference work as a JV partner/consortium member, the 
experience of the bidder shall be considered equivalent to the executed value of work corresponding 
to value of work under the scope of bidder only as per the JV/Consortium Agreement/certified by 
owner/statutory auditor etc. (as applicable). In case bidder is not able to substantiate the above with 
documentary evidence, the experience of the bidder shall be considered in proportion to the bidder’s 
equity participation as per JV/consortium agreement or other documentary evidence.  
 
2.0 Financial Criteria of the Bidder:  
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date 
of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 82 lakh (Indian Rupees Eighty two 
Lakh only). 
 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial 
year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an 
(Page 5 of 11) 
 
event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its techno- commercial bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, 
as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.2 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity basis, 
the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered acceptable 
provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification: 
 
a. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
 
b. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of Techno Commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall 
be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the company are under audit as on the 
date of Techno- commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
  
NOTES for clause No 2.0  
 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves 
credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. 
Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
ii.   Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
iii. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
 
 