 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
Invites 
Expression of Interest 
(EOI) 
 
 
 
 
For Technical Proposals on Reliable, Sustainable & Climate Resilient 
Water Withdrawal Solutions from river Ganga for NTPC’s upcoming 
project

 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS OF EOI 
 
This EOI document comprises of the following sections: 
 
 
 
(i) Section I : EOI Information 
(ii) Section II : Introduction 
(iii) Section III : Instructions to the Applicants 
(iv) Section IV : Consideration of Response 
(v) Section V : Application Form and Annexures 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section – I 
EOI Information 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
EOI No. NTPC/PE/SE/EOI-01/2025-26 Date: 01.12. 2025 
 
 
NTPC Limited invites Expressi ons of Interest for technology suggestions/proposals from 
international and domestic agencies for the design and implementation of advanced water 
withdrawal solutions from river Ganga. The pr oposed solutions should focus on reliability, 
operational efficiency, sustainability, environment al compliance, and resilience to climate-
related risks. The objective is to explore re liable, adaptable, and sustai nable models for an 
upcoming NTPC project, thereby ensuring uninterrupted operation while maintaining 
ecological balance and aligning national priorities on sustainable resource management. The 
intent of this EOI is to identify competent agencies that can offer innovative, technically sound, 
and cost-effective water withdrawal solutions, contributing to NTPC’s mission of sustainable 
and efficient power generation. 
DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
a. Interested APPLICANT(s) may download the documents of EOI free of cost 
from https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in 
b. Last date for submission of EOI :  15.01.2026 
c. Last date for queries/ seeking clarifications :  25.12.2025 
d. Date of opening of EoI response :  16.01.2026 
e. Response Validity : 6 months 
from the last 
date for EOI 
Submission 
1.0 For consideration of EOI, APPLICANTs are required to e-mail signed and scanned copy 
of EOI duly filled and completed in all respect, through e-mail mentioned hereunder. Email:  
puneetsharma@ntpc.co.in  
2.0 NTPC shall not be liable for any postal/ Mail delivery issue delays whatsoever in receipt of 
EOI documents and EOI received after the stipulated date and time shall not be 
entertained. EOIs submitted without supporting document will summarily be rejected. 
3.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept  any or all applications, cancel/withdraw the 
EOI process without assigning  any reason whatsoever and in such case, APPLICANT 
shall not have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC bears no responsibility or liability 
of any kind in reference to the EOI. 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - II 
Introduction 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
 
1.0 ABOUT NTPC 
NTPC Limited is India’s largest energy conglomerate and the dominant power major with 
a presence in the entire value chain of t he power generation business. As a Maharatna 
PSU under the Ministry of Power and Indi a’s largest power generator, NTPC plays a 
pivotal role in meeting the nation’s energy  requirements through a diversified portfolio 
spanning thermal, hydro, and renewable power.  
The company reported strong financial perfo rmance in FY 2024-25 with a consolidated 
income of about ₹1,90,862 crore, and a consolidated profit after tax of approximately 
₹23,953 crore. NTPC’s group installed capacity reached nearly 84,849 MW, including its 
subsidiaries and joint ventures. In Q2 FY 2025-26, NTPC maintained its growth trajectory, 
posting a consolidated income of ₹45,262 crore and a profit after tax of ₹5,225 crore. 
These figures underscore NTPC’s financial resilience, operational strength, and continued 
commitment to ensuring reliable and sustainable power for India. 
 
2.0 INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
2.1 The primary objective of this Expression of In terest (EOI) is to invite global interest, 
innovative concepts, and technically robust proposals for the development of reliable and 
efficient water withdrawal systems from river Ganga for NTPC’s upcoming project. Through 
this initiative, NTPC seeks to identify advanced,  non-traditional solutions that can provide 
higher adaptability, operational reliability, and long-term sustainability. Proponents are 
encouraged to present globally benchmarked technologies, including hybrid, modular, 
retractable, or amphibious intake systems, which can effectively address challenges such 
as fluctuating river stages, restricted access, or high silt loads. 
 
2.2 The key intent of this EOI is to ensure the development of solutions that can perform 
efficiently under varying flow conditions su ch as monsoon floods, lean season low flows, 
sudden river stage variations, and heavy siltation. Systems that incorporate features like 
redundancy, automation, intelligent moni toring, and adaptive design are particularly 
sought, as they can guarantee uninterrupted operation across a wide range of hydrological 
scenarios and enhance resilience to climate-related uncertainties.
 
 
7 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
2.3 In addition, NTPC places emphasis on identifyi ng water intake solutions that are energy-
efficient, low-maintenance, and envir onmentally sustainable. Proposals should 
demonstrate low energy consumption through advanced pumping techniques, automation, 
or smart control systems, along with designs that lower lifecycle operation and 
maintenance costs. Further, environmental su stainability will be a critical evaluation 
parameter, with solutions expected to mini mize ecological disturbance to riverine 
ecosystems, reduce risks such as fish entrainment and biodiversity loss, and comply fully 
with applicable environmental and regulatory norms. 
 
2.4 The water withdrawn from t he river shall be pumped and conveyed to the MUW intake 
point (refer annexure 6) or desilting basin co nstructed by NTPC on the riverbank, located 
at approximately 300 meters. Proposals must duly account for seasonal variations in river 
levels and stage fluctuations (refer annexur e 6), ensuring that the proposed solutions 
remain fully operational, reliable, and capable of providing uninterrupted water availability 
to NTPC projects under all seasonal conditions. 
 
2.5 The responses received through this Expression of Interest will be examined by NTPC with 
the objective of identifying the most suitable concepts and solution providers for developing 
a sustainable and reliable water withdrawal s ystem. To facilitate an objective comparison 
of all responses, the layout of the project along with the key parameters has been provided 
in Annexure 6. All applicants are required to  propose their technological solutions in 
alignment with these parameters. Submissi ons will be evaluated on a techno-economic 
basis, considering technical r obustness, reliability under varying operational conditions, 
environmental impact and regulatory compliance, maintainability as well as indicative 
capital and operating costs. Key parameters of the proposed technology/facility have been 
provided in the respective annexures. However, applicants are encouraged to supplement 
these with detailed information and any additi onal technical, operational, or performance-
related parameters they consider relev ant, to enable a comprehensive and objective 
evaluation. 
2.6 Based on the outcome of this evaluation, NT PC will prepare a shortlist of competent 
agencies and technology partners for further engagement. The shortlisted entities may 
subsequently be invited for detailed consul tations, feasibility assessments, and 
participation in tendering processes. NTPC also reserves the right to adopt a hybrid of the 
best solutions proposed by different applicants if such an approach is found most 
beneficial. The final objective is to implement a cost-effective, environmentally responsible, 
and efficient intake system that can reliably meet the long-term water needs of the NTPC 
project. 
 
 
2.7 Participation in this EOI offers several benefit s, including high visibility by providing an 
opportunity to present solutions to India’ s largest power generator, future engagement 
through consideration for feasibility studies, detailed design, or EPC tenders at NTPC 
projects. It also provides market access, enabling potential collaboration across NTPC’s 
project portfolio and India’s expanding power sector, as well as a platform to showcase 
innovative and sustainable technologies that  align with NTPC’s ESG and sustainability 
commitments. Credible proposals may be shortlisted for feasibility studies, detailed design, 
or EPC procurement, positioning applicants as preferred partners for future engagements 
and enabling long-term collaboration, technology transfer, and market access in India’s 
power sector. 
2.8 Applicants are encouraged to provide conceptual , high-level cost estimates for their 
proposed solutions, including indicative c apital expenditure (CapEx) for system 
implementation, approximate operating expenditure (OpEx) on an annual basis, and, 
where applicable, energy consumption per unit volume of water pumped. These estimates 
will be utilized solely for techno-economic evaluation and comparative analysis. All cost 
information submitted will be treated confidential,  and the inclusion of such details at this 
stage does not constitute any procurement commitment or financial obligation on the part 
of NTPC. Applicants will submit the technical data/ information, guarantee parameters, the 
total estimated project cost and other information as sought in Section-V. 
 
3.0 Submission Process & Timeline 
 
 Submission Format: Interested parties are requested to submit their proposals in PDF 
format (maximum 25 pages), including techni cal concept, indicative cost estimates, and 
credentials. 
 Deadline: Proposals should be submitted by due date i.e. 15.01.2026 
 Submission Email/Portal: All proposals must be submitted electronically to 
puneetsharma@ntpc.co.in with the subject li ne: “EoI – Technical Proposals for Water 
Withdrawal Solutions for NTPC Projects”. 
 Clarifications: Any queries regarding this EoI may be addressed to 
puneetsharma@ntpc.co.in no later than 25.12.2025 
 Evaluation & Next Steps: NTPC will revi ew all proposals and may invite shortlisted 
applicants for further discussions, presentations, or detailed feasibility engagements. 
 The proposals will be evaluated on the basis of objective and measurable criteria including 
proven execution experience of at least one installation with pum ping capacity exceeding 
5,000 m³/hr; technical robustness and reliability of the proposed solution under seasonal 
fluctuations and river level variations (minimum range of 20–30 m); conformity to statutory, 
environmental and regulatory requirements; main tainability; energy efficiency in terms of 
specific energy consumption (kWh/m³); and overall cost competitiveness based on 
indicative capital and operational costs. 
 
 
4.0 Eligibility conditions for Participation in EOI 
 
4.1 All international and domestic agencies of repute 
4.2 The applicant must have successfully designed, engineered, or implemented at least one river-
water withdrawal system with  a minimum pumping capacity of 5,000 m³/hr, supported by 
documentary evidence. 
4.3 The Applicant should give a minimum pumping capacity of 9000m3/hr for the proposal. 
 
**** 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - III 
Instructions to the Applicants 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE APPLICANTS 
 
 
 
1.0 The Applicants should note that: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EOI or any query/clarifications/correspondences shall 
be in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, Application Fo rm and Annexures given in Section-V shall 
be duly filled and sent to NTPC by the APPLICANT in soft copy. 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section-I and Section-II thoroughly before filling and 
submitting the application form and annexures in Section-V. 
 
d. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two persons, with complete 
address, phone number and email id. 
 
e. NTPC Ltd. may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents and/ 
or seek clarifications from the Applic ant(s) after the Deadline for submission of 
response, inter alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities in their 
responses. 
 
2.0 Enquiries and clarifications 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via e-mail: 
To: puneetsharma@ntpc.co.in  
CC to: akshaytandon@ntpc.co.in, ashishkumar07@ntpc.co.in  
 
3.0 Corrigendum 
 
 
At any time before the last date of submis sion of EOIs, NTPC may, for any reason, 
whether at its own initiative or in respons e to a clarification requested by an Applicant, 
modify the EOI document. The amendment wi ll be posted on the website and will be 
binding on the Applicants and the Applicant will give due consideration to the same, while 
they submit their EOIs, and would invariably enclose documents/ information, as required, 
11 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
on account of the amendment, as a part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its discretion, extend 
the deadline for the submission of EOIs. 
 
4.0 Preparation of the response to EOI 
 
 
The application of EOI shall consist of Annexure-1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Section-V. 
 
5.0 Validity of the responses 
 
The Applicant shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to six (6) months 
after the response Deadline (“Response Validity ”). NTPC reserve the right to reject any 
response, which does not meet the above-mentioned validity requirement. 
 
NTPC may solicit the Applicant’s consent for an extension of the period of validity of the 
response. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing. In the event any 
Applicant refuses to extend its response va lidity as requested by NTPC, NTPC shall 
terminate processing of such Applicant’s responses. An Applicant accepting NTPC 
request for validity extension shall not be permitted to modify its response. 
 
6.0 Submission of the response to EOI 
The responses to the EOI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail format- 
 
To:  puneetsharma@ntpc.co.in  
CC to: akshaytandon@ntpc.co.in, ashishkumar07@ntpc.co.in 
 
Ref. EOI No. NTPC/PE/SE/EOI-01/2025-26 Dated 01.12.2025 
 
 
Submitted to: 
puneetsharma@ntpc.co.in  
Submitted by: 
 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized signatory. 
The responses to the EOI should be submitted within the deadline at the e-mail address 
provided in the Section-I of this EOI. 
12 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
7.0 Costs and expenses towards response to EOI 
 
The Applicants shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation of the 
response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution of the documents 
related with this EOI, NTPC shall not be responsible in any way for such costs, regardless 
of the conduct or outcome of this short-listing/ selection process. 
 
8.0 Disclaimer 
 
This Expression of Interest (EOI) has been prepared by NTPC Ltd. for response from 
Indian/Global Company/their Co nsortium/Affiliates/Representatives to solicit global 
interest, concepts, and technical proposals for establishing robust and efficient water 
withdrawal systems from rivers. 
In submitting the response to the EOI, the Applicant certify that it understands, accepts, 
and agrees to the disclaimers on this page. No thing contained in any other provision of 
the EOI nor any statements made orally or in writing by any person or party shall have the 
effect of negating or superseding any of the disclaimers set forth herewith. 
*** 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-IV 
 
 
Consideration of Response 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
CONSIDERATION OF RESPONSE 
 
Responsiveness check 
 
The responses submitted by Applicants s hall be scrutinized and may be rejected in 
following conditions-to establish interest in setting the stated facility . Responses shall be 
deemed non-responsive for following reasons: 
 
 Responses that are incomplete, i.e., not accompanied by any of the applicable formats 
inter-alia covering letter power of atto rney, applicable undertakings, provided in more 
details at annexure in Section-V. 
 Responses not signed by authorized si gnatory and / or stamped in the manner 
indicated in this EOI. 
 Material inconsistencies in the information/ documents submitted by the Applicant. 
 An Applicant submitting more than one respons e to this EOI either itself or through an 
affiliate or subsidiary company. 
 Response validity being less than that required as per Clause 5 of section-III of this 
EOI. 
 Response being conditional in nature. 
 Response not received by the response Deadline. 
 Response having Conflict of Interest. 
 Applicant delaying in submission of additi onal information or clarifications sought by 
NTPC, as applicable. 
 
All bids that shall meet the responsive check requirements set out above in this section of 
the EOI document shall be considered as responsive. In case of non-submission of relevant 
details as above, the responses may be considered as “ non-responsive”, at the sole 
discretion of NTPC and will not be considered further. 
 
**** 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-V 
Application Form & Annexures 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Annexure-1 
 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
 
 
Date :   Place :   
 
To, 
……………………………. 
 
Sub.: (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
Ref.:  EOI No.  , dated (the “EOI”) 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined, and 
understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
 
We confirm that neither we nor any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate Parent Company 
has submitted response other than this response directly or indirectly in response to the 
aforesaid EOI. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC, as amended. In token 
of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed & stamped by us and enclosed 
to the response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per  provisions and formats of the EOI, without 
any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocabl y agree and accept that the decision made by 
NTPC in respect of any matter regarding or ar ising out of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
We hereby expressly waive any or all claims in  respect of EOI process. We confirm that 
there are no litigations or disputes against us, which mate rially affect our ability to 
participate or function under the obligations regarding EOI. 
17 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in electronic 
format sent via email to: puneetsharma@ntpc.co.in as per the EOI for consideration. 
 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consiste nt with all the requirements of submission as 
stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC, if any. 
 
7. The information submitted in our response is  complete, strictly as per the requirements 
stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and understanding. We 
would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response. 
 
We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for acceptance for 
a period of six (6) months from the response Deadline. 
 
8. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed “ Non-Responsive” 
as stipulated in Section-IV of this EOI. 
 
9. We understand that you are not bound to  accept any response you receive. 
 
10. We declare that our firm is neither put on Holiday or Black-listed by any Government / PSU 
/ Private firm or Financial Institution. 
 
11. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
 
 
We remain, 
 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person) 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Annexure-2 
 
 
APPLICANT’S ORGANIZATION DETAILS TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
(Note: Documents in support of meeting the respective requirement shall be submitted 
by the Applicant.) 
 
1) Name of the Company 
 
2) Legal status of the Company 
 
3) Brief description of the Company including details of its business groups/subsidiaries/ 
affiliates: 
4) Existing Manufacturing facilities – Locations, Capacity 
 
5) Date of Incorporation: 
 
6) Date of Commencement of Business: 
 
7) Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any:  
8) Collaborations/tie-ups with manufacturer (if applicable), 
9) Details of Indian parties, if any, for installation, supply, services, and 
collaboration 
10) Financial Data of Organization (Attach Relevant document in proof of same) 
Applicant is requested to submit Annual financial turnover during the last three (3) 
preceding financial year. Applicant to submit audited Balance Sheet and Profit & 
Loss account for the above three financial years. 
 
 Financial year 
2024-25 
Financial year 
2023-24 
Financial year 
2022-23 
Turnover    
Net worth    
Profit    
 
 
 
***** 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Annexure-3 
 
 
TECHNICAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
 
Applicant shall duly furnish following information. 
 
 
1.0 About the Technology and Technology Provider 
Applicant shall fill the required details and attach relevant documents as per Table-1, 
Clause-A and Clause-B, Annexure-4. 
 
2.0 About the Reference Plant 
 
Applicant shall fill the required details and attach relevant documents as per Table-1, 
Clause-C, Annexure-4. 
 
3.0 About Proposed Facility 
Applicant shall fill the required details and attach relevant documents as per Table-1, 
Clause-D, Annexure-4. 
 
4.0 Budgetary Cost: 
 
4.1 Estimated total capital investment for the proposed facility with cost breakup of all 
major components preferably as listed below along with scope of supply and services, 
inclusions, exclusions, terminal points, facilities required at site, tentative project 
schedule: 
 All the mechanical and electrical equipment s like pumps, motors, transformer etc. 
 All associated piping and cabling 
 All associated civil works 
 Any other item required for smooth functioning of the facility 
 Civil/Infrastructure requirement 
 Control System 
 Installation and Commissioning 
 Miscellaneous Items 
 Package BOP, as applicable (Transformer  / control systems etc. as required 
for completion of the project) 
 Safety and protection systems 
 
 
4.2 Estimated Annual O&M cost with spares and consumables. 
20 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Note: 
 Applicant shall separately mention taxes,  duties, freight, insurance applicable for 
above items/project. 
 Applicant shall mention budgetary cost equi pment supply for Indian item and imported 
item separately. 
 Financial contribution by the party / proposed mode of project execution 
 
 
5.0 Project Timeline: 
Applicant shall mention project completion period from award of job till Commissioning 
and Guarantee Test Run with necessary details. 
 
 
 
 
 
(Sign & Company Seal) 
 
 
Authorized signatory 
 
 
 
 
***** 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Annexure-4 
 
(Technical Data) 
Note: Applicant to attach relevant/supporting documents 
 
Sl. No. Description Applicant to fill 
(A) About the Technology Provider 
1. Type of river water withdrawal facility proposed by 
Applicant 
 
2. Whether Technology is owned by 
Applicant 
Yes/No 
a) If no, Name of Technology owner/ 
developer/ IP Owner 
 
b) Registered office of Technology owner/ 
developer/ IP Owner 
 
c) Whether Applicant has technology tie up/ 
collaboration with Technology owner/developer/ IP 
Owner 
Yes/No (Attached copy 
of Technology tie up/ 
collaboration 
agreement) 
d) Validity period of agreement  
(B) About the Technology 
1. Write-up of the proposed technology indicating working 
principle, major operating parameters/ conditions, 
control philosophy, input requirements (power 
consumption, utility requirement), guaranteed flow and 
availability, startup time etc. 
 
2. Process flow diagram with write up  
3. Civil infra and any other associated system writeup  
4. Technology Readiness Level (7 or more is desirable)  
5. Best use case, Merits and Demerits and limitations of 
the technology 
 
6. Comparison with other technologies  
7. Facility pumping data (pressure, flow, impurities etc.)  
8. Range of the river stage and river water level (HFL & 
LFL etc.) that can be catered to by the system (in m) 
 
9. Overall Efficiency and parameters affecting efficiency/ 
performance 
 
10. Any other relevant details (as applicable)  
(C) Details of reference pilot/commercial Installations 
1. Name of project where Applicant/ Its 
Collaborator/ associate installed / is installing or 
has installed the proposed facility  
 
2. Name, address, and contact details of owner of plant  
3. Scale of plant (Commercial/ pilot plant) 
4. Design capacity   
 
 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
5. Date of award  
6. Date of completion of plant  
7. Details of facility (fixed or floating or 
retractable etc..) – Provide GA 
drawings 
 
8. If installation not yet completed, 
Present status and date of expected 
completion 
 
9. Scope of work of Applicant (Furnish 
copy of LOA) 
 
10. Range/Changes in river stage and 
river water level that can be catered to 
(as per designed criteria)  
 
11. Actual seasonal variations handled in 
terms of fluctuations in river width and 
water level (last 3 year data) 
 
12. Flow diagram of the system  
13. P &ID of main system   
14. Control philosophy for the overall 
system (level of automation) 
 
15. Enclose user satisfactory performance 
certificate stating % annual availability 
during last 3 years 
 
16. Availability of the facility (yearly) during 
last 3 years 
 
17. Mean Time Between Failures (last 3 yr)  
18. Mean Time to Repair (last 3 years)  
19. Outages (with reasons) of the plant in 
last 3 years 
 
20. Power consumption & Efficiency  
(D) Details of the Proposed System (River water withdrawal system) 
1. Design capacity of the facility   
2. Flexibility & scalability   
3. Output pressure / Head  
4. Changes, if any, from the reference 
project 
 
5. Required power input for pumping  
6. Any other input required  
7. Process flow diagram indicating 
parameters.  
 
8. Overall Efficiency   
9. Type of system 
(Fixed/floating/retractable/other) 
 
10. Details of associated civil and any other 
infra  
 
11. List of equipment with rated capacity  
12. Electrical load list of each equipment  
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
13. Pro & cons of the proposed technology 
wrt other similar technologies 
 
14. Pump type & configuration  
15. No of pumps and redundancy strategy   
16. River stage variation range (m)  
17. River water level variation range (m)  
18. Hydraulic transients & surge protection  
19. Debris/silt/sediment management  
20. Water quality range (turbidity, temp etc)  
21. Service life of system components 
(pumps, motors, civil works) 
 
22. Replacement frequency and major 
overhauls 
 
23. Expected downtime per year  
24. Expected/guaranteed availability factor 
(annually keeping seasonality into 
consideration) 
 
25. Land Area Required (m2)  
26. P &ID of main system and BOP  
27. Whether system is compatible for 
handling the river variations as provided 
in the EOI. 
Yes/No 
(If no, please furnish type of waste with its 
analysis for which system is designed.) 
28. Land r equirement  
29. Type of waste generated (during 
construction & operation) 
 
30. Startup time (up to full load)  
31. Expected life of entire system as a whole 
(Years) considering no degradation in 
capacity 
 
32. Annual maintenance requirement 
Maintenance Activities with frequency. 
 
33. No. of planned shutdown with duration 
per year 
 
34. Terminal Points and Exclusions  
35. Environmental impact or footprints of 
the proposed project wrt ecological, 
hydrological, local biodiversity and 
social impacts 
 
36. O&M details  
37. Safety Aspects  
38. Spares and Consumables  
39. Guaranteed Availability Factor (as per 
seasonal variations handled) 
 
40. Maximum seasonal variations in river 
that can be handled by the system 
 
41. Desilting arrangement – give details  
42. Any other technical details, applicant 
would like to highlight about the 
proposed technology 
 
43. Input data (if any) required from NTPC  
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Other Data 
44. % of Indian content of equipment 
supply 
 
45. % of Imported content of 
equipment 
supply and source of country 
 
46. Completion schedule of project (in 
month) 
 
47. Details of support required from NTPC 
during execution of the proposed 
project 
 
48. In case Applicant has technology tie 
up/collaboration with technology 
owner/ developer/IP Owner, detail 
scope of technology support from 
collaborator to 
be indicated 
 
49. Details of clearances and approvals 
required prior to implementation 
 
 
 
 
24 25  
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Annexure-5 
 
(Indicative cost estimates) 
 
Indicative Cost (in INR) 
Capital Cost* (including all taxes 
as per Indian tax regime) 
 
Annual Operational Cost**   
Other cost, if any  
  
 
.*    For required facility as per conditions indicated in cl no  
.**  All including electricity charges, spares & consumables, manpower requirement, AMC etc…Electricity 
rate shall be considered at Rs 5/- per unit.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure – 6 
 
Layout of the proposed system 
(Applicants must give technological solutions along with respective indicative cost for this layout only) 
 
 
 
 
 
Pumping requirement/capacity : 9000 m3/hr 
 
Silt Factor         0.51 
Max Velocity of water in river       3.9 m/s 
 
River Water level (high & low) and other Geotech data are as follows: 
H F L           R L  =  8 6  
LWL          RL = 66 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Layout & Bathymetry Data of The Reference Location 
Corresponding 
to point C 
Point B (MUW Intake point) 
Geodetic: 2795255.712 N, 611604.782 S, RL 89.6 
Delivery point for intake water system 
Water withdrawal system will pump water to the 
desilting basin beyond which NTPC’s pumping 
station will further pump the water. 
Point A  
(Geodetic: 2795559.905 N, 611587.882 S) 
C 