
EOIOFFER AGAINST EOI 
  
ASHVINI/MBRAPP/EOI/01 DATED_04/12/2025  
 
To, 
 
DGM (P&S) 
MBRAPP/ASHVINI,  
NAPLA, TEHSIL CHHOTI SARWAN 
DISTT. -BANSWARA, RAJASTHAN 327001 
 
Subject: Offer for Hiring of Guest House on Choice – cum – Seclection basis for 
ASHVINI- MBRAPP at Ratlam-on lease basis for 4+1 years 
 
Dear Sir, 
  
Please find my best offer against your enquiry ASHVINI/MBRAPP/EOI/01 
DATED_04/12/2025  Hiring/leasing of Guest House for MBRAPP at Ratlam. 
 
Last date for submission of EOI: 05.01.2026 , 5PM. 
 
 
Thank you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
(Signature of Authorized person) 
Name and address in full 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENVELOPE 1 
 
TECHNICAL DATA AND FORMS 
  
General Information of the Property (To be filled by Bidder) 
 
Enquiry  enquiry ASHVINI/MBRAPP/EOI/01 DATED_04/12/2025 
 
Offer for Hiring of Guest House on Choice – cum – Seclection basis for 
ASHVINI- MBRAPP at Ratlam-on lease basis for 4+1 years 
 
SN Item Description Remarks 
1 
 
Property details 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner / Firm/ Company/ HUF 
 
 
 
 
 
Location with Address/Area, Pin code no: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Email Id:  
 
Mobile No:  
 
PAN  
 
AADHAAR  
GST No. 
 
 
 
CIN No. (Registration certificate to be 
submitted, if applicable). 
 
 
Only Independent Property to be offered  
Floor offered on lease (Ground, First, second 
or duplex (pl mention), 
Partial leasing of property shall not be 
accepted.  
 
 
 
Total Built up Area offered unit in sq ft. other 
than parking (Min. 2500 sq. ft.)   
 
 
Reserved Parking Space of owner of offered 
premises for min 4 vehicles (SUV’s).   
No. of rooms offered with attached washroom/ 
Bathroom (requirement min. 4 rooms with 
attached toilet/bathroom) 
 
No. of rooms without washroom offered  
 
Common washroom for Visitors   
 
One Pantry/Kitchen facility (min 100 sq ft)  
 
Ceiling Fan in each room   
 
Two (02) LED lights of min. 20W each and one 
(01) night lamp min. 3W in each room  
One (01) LED bulb 10W in each washroom   
 
One (01) exhaust fan in each washroom.  
 
Bid/Offer is to be submitted only by the 
registered owner or legal heir of Premises and 
payment will be made in the name of owner 
only.  
No third-party bid/ application / agreement is 
acceptable and will be rejected outrightly. 
 
Power of attorney for release of payment will 
not be accepted.  
 
2 GST %, if applicable 
If a GST-registered tenant (here ASHVINI) 
rents a commercial property from an 
unregistered landlord (here Lessor), the 
ASHVINI shall pay the applicable GST directly 
to the government under the RCM. The 
landlord in this scenario does not need to 
collect or file the GST.  
 
3 Other Taxes & Compliance   
 
4 Lease Start Within 30 Days from the date of the 
letter of Intent/Award 
 
 
 
5 Validity of offer/bid 120 days 
 
6 Type of Connection of Electricity and capacity 
(suitable 3 phase connection)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
TERMS & CONDITIONS FOR LEASING GUEST HOUSE AT RATLAM 
 
  
1. The property being offered should be independent with good condition and be 
situated within 02-03 kms radius of Ratlam Railway Station preferably on Ratlam 
Banswara Road. 
  
2.  In case single property is not available with 6 rooms, two adjacent (side by side) 
independent houses will also be acceptable meeting the all eligible criteria from a 
single Owner / Firm/ Company/ HUF.  
 
3. Bid/Offer is to be submitted only by the registered owner or legal heir of Premises and 
payment will be made in the name of owner only. No third-party bid/ application / 
agreement is acceptable and will be rejected outrightly. Power of attorney for release 
of payment will not be accepted.  
 
4. The lease agreement will be for minimum 04 years, with a provision for extension of 
01 year as required by ASHVINI, MBRAPP.  
 
5. All statutory clearances, as applicable & local authority clearances as applicable, 
need to be submitted by owner of the property. 
 
6. The property must be in the name of the legal owner and free from any 
disputes/litigations. Ownership documents must be submitted. 
 
7. Offer of the leasing partial property shall not be accepted. Whole property of entire 
premises will be accepted.  
 
8. Clean & Proper approach road (motorable for 4-wheeler) to the property is mandatory. 
 
9. The offered premises should be in good condition with safe structure (RCC), pest-
free, and compliant with fire safety norms as per Local Muncipal Norms.   
10. The Property shall have unhindered entry and exit for 24 hours for man and material.  
 
11. All rooms need to have proper ventilation and windows, attached bathrooms, 
provision for 24-hour water, electricity and other basic facilities like provision for fitting 
of TV, Telephone in each room. 
 
12. The offered property shall be with Minium Built up area 2500 Sq Ft. with minimum 6 
rooms and 6 washrooms.  
a. Each room should have a minimum area of 150 sq. ft. (excluding washroom).  
b. Out of 6 rooms, at least four rooms must have attached washrooms with 
Western Toilet with hot and cold water (mixer fitting) facility.  
c. Other 2 rooms can have access to common washroom with western / Indian 
toilet facilities  
d. Separate dining cum drawing and moduler kitchen for common use is required.  
e. Provision for installation of RO in Kitchen shall be provided by the owner. 
f. Fans installed in each room with Two (02) LED lights of min. 20W each and 
one (01) night lamp min. 3W in each room  
g. The property should have provisions for installation of 1 nos. split AC in each 
room & hall. 
h. The offered premises should be in well condition with fresh painted with all the 
required running taps / plumbing items, electrification and required sockets 
before handing over.  
i. Housekeeping/waste disposal arrangement must be feasible from 
municipal/local authority system. 
j. Provision of inverter point wiring is required should be provided by Owner in 
each room. 
k. Interior and exterior of the demised premises should be in good order and 
condition (reasonable wear and tear and damage by fire earthquake, flood, 
tempest, lightning, inevitable force or accident expected).  
l. A round-the-clock water facility should be available in each room. The property 
shall have running water connection with underground / overhead tank storage 
with Minimum 5000 Liter water capacity with motor and pump. Each toilet and 
kitchen should have provision of running water 
 
13. In addition to the above, parking space minimum for 4 SUV/MPV should be available 
without any interference of the nearby houses. Corner end property shall be preferred  
  
14. The property shall have valid Separate Electricity Connection with no backlog of due 
electricity charges.  In case selection of property, have single phase connection, 
Lessee (ASHVINI, MBRAPP) should have obtain 3 phase connection  with minimum 
sanction load of 15 KW before agreement at his own expenses.  
 
15. The owner shall have no objection for installation of any electrical & electronic 
equipment / other equipment /furniture / connection – Internet Connection /WIFI, etc 
as required by ASHVINI, MBRAPP.  
 
16. Before agreement both the parties jointly inspect the premises required initial 
maintenance work and the same will be complied by the lessor within 15 days and 
list of available equipment and accessories will be handed over the ASHVINI, 
MBRAPP and the same will be incorporated in a separate sheet of the agreement. 
After completion of the contract period all the equipment will be handed over to the 
lessor by the Lessee ASHVINI, MBRAPP  as is where is basis.  
 
17. All the statutory / non statutory payment / taxes will be borne by the Leassor (only 
electricity & water bills will be paid by the Lessee (ASHVINI, MBRAPP) .  
 
 
18.  Escalation @ 5% in rent will be admissible from the 2nd year (date of completion of 
1st  year) onwards over the finalized/offered rent till 4 th year and a further 5% 
escalation in the 5th year (if extended).  
 
19. Example of Lease Calculation are as follows  
Year  Rent 
(e.g.)  
Escalation  
1st Year  
(1ST 12 Month) 
25000 NIL  
2nd Year  
(13th to 24th  Month) 
26250 5% 
3rd Year  
(25th to 36th Month)  
27563 5% 
4th Year  
(37th to 48th Month)  
28941 5% 
5th Year 
(49th to 60th Month)   
30388 5% 
 
20. Payment Terms: One Bill shall be raised per month. Payment will be made within 20-
30 days on submission of invoice with all required supporting documents after 
issuance of Contract and signing of Agreement by both parties. 
 
21. Contract can be terminated during the contract period only with mutual consent of 
both the parties with minimum notice period of 6 months.  
22. Enclosed Cover letter, Summary of Bid, Schedule of Quantity, Documents duly signed 
and stamped on each page as a token of confirmation of compliance of the same. 
   
23. The quotations will be evaluated based on technical compliance and financial will be 
opened of only those owners fulfilling MBRAPP’s Specifications/Requirements. 
Further having the most competitive financial offer. 
 
24. Financial evaluation shall be carried out in this case and lowest bidder (L1) on 
monthly lease / rental value will be considered for award.   
 
25. Overall L1 price offered by technically suitable party irrespective of nos. of rooms 
(minimum rooms to be offered is 6) shall be considered for award.  
 
Note :  
The Lessee (ASHVINI, MBRAPP) is empowered to accept or reject any property 
on choice – cum – selection basis. The Lessee (ASHVINI, MBRAPP) further 
reserve the right to select any other suitable property, even if it falls outside the 
initially specified coverage area, subject to applicable terms and condition of 
EOI. 
  
Additional Information (Scope of Lessee - ASHVINI- MBRAPP) 
I. Furniture, air-conditioners, RO, Inverter/DG set, and other electronic equipment
will be arranged by ASHVINI- MBRAPP.
II. Electricity and water charges will be borne by MBRAPP–ASHVINI on actual
basis.
III. GST will be paid under RCM, if applicable.
IV. All maintenance, like Civil, electricals, Plumbing, Carpentry and Sanitation,
shall be within the scope of ASHVINI, MBRAPP. Separate maintenance contract
will be issued from ASHVINI, MBRAPP .
Submission of Offers: 
Interested parties/property owners may submit their Expression of Interest (EOI) with 
complete details of the property, including: 
I. Location and address of the property
II. Number and size of rooms.
III. Facilities available (parking, water, kitchen, dining, etc.)
IV. Ownership details with copy of documents
V. Rent expected (exclusive of electricity charges)
VI. Technically Suitable offers shall be considered for opening of Financial Bids.
VII. L-1 offer from technically acceptable bids shall be selected.
VIII. Application will be issued from and to be submitted in sealed cover to:
Project Director (MBRAPP)  
Mahi Banswara Rajasthan Atomic Power Project (MBRAPP) 
Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd. (ASHVINI) 
 In front of Deri Busstand , along NH927A, Chhoti Servan block ,  Dist.- Banswara, 
Rajasthan 327001 
Note: 
1) Technically Suitable offers shall be considered for opening of Financial Bids.
2) L-1 offer from technically acceptable bids shall be selected.
3) The premises offered would be made ready for offer by 31 st December 2025
Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Note: The Lessee (ASHVINI, MBRAPP) is empowered to accept or reject any 
property on choice – cum – selection basis. The Lessee (ASHVINI, MBRAPP) 
further reserve the right to select any other suitable property, even if it is fall 
outside the initially specified coverage area, subject to applicable terms and 
condition of EOI.  
Authorized Signature of the Bidder with seal 
For any queries please email to: chandrashekharsoni@ntpc.co.in or manojvarma@ntpc.co.in
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF PROPERTY 
ON CHOICE – CUM – SECLECTION BASIS 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION  
 
Sr 
No. 
Criteria (Whether qualifying on this parameter)  
 
Qualified or not  Maximum 
marks  
Marks 
Obtained.  
1. The property being offered should be 
independent and good condition and be situated 
within 3 Kms from Ratlam Railway Station.   
0 to 1 Kms : 10 Marks  
1 ksm to 2 Kms 8 Marks  
2 kms to 3 kms 6 Marks  
Beyond 3 kms : 4 Marks  
 10  
2. Preference will be given to the property located 
on Ratlam Banswara Road  
 10  
3. The property should have a minimum of 6 
rooms. 
 10  
4. Each room should have a minimum area of 150 
sq. ft. (excluding washroom). 
 9  
5. 
 
Each room must have an attached bathroom 
with proper ventilation, western WC, and 
continuous water supply. A round-the-clock water 
facility should be available on each floor. 
 9  
6. Uninterrupted electricity supply with separate 
metering arrangements is required. Provision of 
inverter point wiring is required. 
 9  
7. Adequate open/covered parking space for 
minimum 4 vehicles must be available inside or 
adjacent to the property 
 9  
8. Clean & Proper approach road (motorable for 4-
wheeler) to the property 
 9  
     
 Total Marks   75  
9 Observation of committee on Site visit and 
Inspection of the offered premises for its 
surrounding environment/ambience/ 
locality/gated community etc. / ventilation and 
approach to property By Committee members 
 25  
 Grand Total   100  
 
Note : 
1. In any property is disqualified based any of the above criteria then it will not be 
considered for further evaluation.  
2. Property having Less than 6 rooms shall not be considered for evaluation 
3. Minimum criteria for acceptance of technical bid shall be 75 out of 100 
4. The final decision of the Committee will be final and binding on all concerned, in this 
regard. The committee has the discretionary power to select or reject any or all the 
properties that are not suitable as per the requirements decided by the management. 
 
ENVELOPE 2 
 
FINANCIAL BID 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL BID 
(Put in separate envelope Indicating Financial bid) 
 
Offer for Hiring of Guest House on Choice – cum – Seclection basis for ASHVINI- 
MBRAPP at Ratlam-on lease basis for 4+1 years 
 
SOQR (Schedule of Quantity and Rates)  (IN RS) 
Name of the Owner  
Property Address :  
 
S. 
N 
ITEM Description Rate offered per month for 
initial 12 Months as per Terms 
and conditions refereed above.  
 
Excluding GST 
A B C 
1 
 
 
Hiring of Property at Ratlam as per technical 
Specification  
(with min 6 rooms) for first year starting from 
01/01/2026 to 31/12 /2026 
 
NOTE: A Maximum of 5% escalation will be 
paid on succeeding year rental rate/value 
over preceding year MONTHLY/YEARLY 
LEASE. 
 
 
Rs ________/- Per month  
 
 Financial evaluation shall be carried out in this case and lowest bidder (L1) on monthly 
lease / rental value will be considered for award.  
 Overall L1 price offered by technically suitable party irrespective of nos. of rooms 
(minimum rooms to be offered is 6) shall be considered for award 
 
1. Note: The lease agreement will be for minimum 04 years, with a provision for 
extension of 01 year as required by ASHVINI, MBRAPP.  
 
Rate In Words: (Rupees) ___________________________________________Only 
(Excluding GST)  
 
Request Remarks:  
 
 
AUTHORISED SIGNATORY 
 
Stamp/Seal 
Owner of the property 