 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 1 of 136 
 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED 
(A Wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited, A Maharatna Organization, under 
Ministry of Power, Government of India) 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector -24, Noida – 201301 (U.P.) 
 
 
 
Request for Selection (RfS) Document 
For 
 
Procurement under Tariff-Based Global Competitive Bidding Request for Selection 
(RFS) document for setting up of 125 MW/ 500 MWh STU connected standalone 
Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the state of Chhattisgarh for Chhattisgarh 
State Power Distribution Company Limited (CSPDCL) with Viability Gap Funding (VGF) 
supported through Power System Development Fund (PSDF) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 2 of 136 
 
DISCLAIMER 
 
1. Though adequate care has been taken while preparing the RfS document, the bidder(s) 
shall satisfy themselves that the document is complete in all respect. Intimation regarding 
any discrepancy shall be given by the prospective bidders to the office of NTPC Vidyut 
Vyapar Nigam Limited (NVVN) immediately. If no intimation is received from any bidder 
prior to the last date for seeking the clarification , it shall be considered that the document 
is complete in all respect and has been received/ acknowledged by the bidder(s). 
2. NVVN reserves the right to modify, amend or supplement this document. 
3. This RfS document has been prepared in good faith, and on best endeavour basis. Neither 
NVVN nor their employees or advisors make any representation or warranty, express or 
implied, or accept any responsibility or liability, whatsoever, in respect of any statements 
or omissions herein, or the accuracy, completeness or reliabil ity of information, and shall 
incur no liability under any law, statute, rules or regulations as to the accuracy, reliability or 
completeness of this document, even if any loss or damage is caused by any act or 
omission on their part. 
4. This RfS is not an agreement and is neither an offer nor invitation to the prospective bidders 
or any other person. The purpose of this RfS is to set the terms for the selection process 
and to provide Bidders with information that may be useful to them in preparation and 
submission of their Bids. 
5. The bidder shall bear all its costs associated with or relating to the preparation and 
submission of its bid, including but not limited to preparation, copying, postage, delivery 
fees or any other costs incurred in connection with or relating to its bid. All such costs and 
expenses will remain with the bidder and the authority shall not be liable in any manner 
whatsoever for the same or for any other costs or other expenses incurred by a bidder in 
preparation of submission of the bid, regardless of the cond uct or the outcome of the 
bidding process. 
6. In case of any discrepancy in the Bidding documents uploaded on the websites of NVVN, 
Bharat ETS e -bidding portal (The link for same is https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com), the documents uploaded on the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com website will prevail. 
 
 
 
 
Place: Noida Date:  01.12.2025
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 3 of 136 
 
BID INFORMATION SHEET 
The brief details of the RfS are as under: 
 
 
 
 
(A) 
 
NAME OF WORK/ 
BRIEF SCOPE OF 
WORK/ JOB 
1. Selection of Battery Energy Storage System Developers 
for Setting up of 500 MWh (125 MW x 4 hrs) Standalone 
Battery Energy Storage Systems in Chhattisgarh for 
“on Demand” usage under Tariff -based Competitive 
Bidding 
2. The Projects will be set up under “BOO” model. 
(B) RfS NO. & DATE NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 Dated 01.12.2025 
(C) TYPE OF BIDDING 
SYSTEM 
Single Stage Bidding with Two Envelopes 
 
 
(D) 
 
 
TYPE OF RfS/ 
TENDER 
 
 
 
 
(E) COMPLETION/ 
CONTRACT PERIOD 
As mentioned in RfS Document 
 
 
 
 
 
(F) 
 
DOCUMENT FEE/ 
COST OF RfS 
DOCUMENT 
(NON-REFUNDABLE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(G) 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT 
PROCESSING FEE 
 
 
 
 
Rs. 15.00 Lakh + 18% GST for total Project capacity quoted 
by bidder, shall be submitted through NEFT/RTGS transfer 
in the account of the NVVN. 
 
 
 
 
(H) 
 
 
 
EARNEST MONEY 
DEPOSIT (EMD) 
 
 
 
 
Amount: INR 8,80,000/MW  (Rupees Eight Lakh Eighty 
Thousand only per MW) per Project shall be submitted in 
the form of Bank Guarantee.  
E-TENDER Yes 
MANUAL  
 
 
APPLICABLE  
NOT APPLICABLE                Yes 
  
APPLICABLE Yes 
NOT APPLICABLE  
 
 
APPLICABLE 
 
Yes 
 
NOT APPLICABLE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 4 of 136 
 
 
 
(I) 
 
PERFORMANCE 
BANK GUARANTEE 
Bidders selected by NVVN/ CSPDCL based on this RfS 
shall submit Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG) for a 
value @ INR 22,00,000/MW (Rupees Twenty Two Lakh 
only per MW) to CSPDCL, prior to signing of BESPA with 
CSPDCL as per terms of RfS. 
 
 
(J) 
DATE, TIME & 
VENUE OF PRE-BID 
MEETING 
 
As per date & time mentioned on ETS portal. Bidders shall 
submit their queries on or before to NVVN through email. 
(K) 
OFFLINE & ONLINE 
BID-SUBMISSION 
DEADLINE 
Applicable as per NIT on Bharat-ETS portal 
(L) 
TECHNO- 
COMMERCIAL BID 
OPENING 
As per NIT on Bharat-ETS portal 
(M) e-Reverse Auction (e- 
RA) 
Will be informed to eligible bidders. 
Date and time of e-RA shall be intimated through email. 
 
(N) 
CONTACT DETAILS 
OF (insert details of 
the e-bidding portal) 
mailto: Bharat-ETS portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com 
 
 
(O) 
Name, Designation, 
Address and other 
details 
(For Submission of 
Response to RfS) 
Arun Kumar, Manager(C&M) 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED 
Ph No. 0120-4947246 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector -24, Noida – 201301 (U.P.) 
 
(P) 
Details of persons to 
be contacted in case 
of any assistance 
required 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED 
(A Wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited) 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector -24, Noida – 201301 (U.P.) 
 
 
1. Bidders are required to quote strictly as per terms and conditions of the RfS documents 
and not to stipulate any deviations/ exceptions. 
2. Any bidder, who meets the Qualifying Requirement and wishes to quote against this 
RfS, may download the complete RfS document along with its amendment(s) and 
clarifications if any, from Bharat ETS e -bidding portal and/or NVVN website 
(www.nvvn.co.in) and submit their Bid complete in all respect as per terms & 
conditions of RfS Document on or before the due date of bid submission. 
3. Clarification(s)/ Corrigendum(s) if any shall also be available on the above referred 
websites. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 5 of 136 
 
Bidders are requested to remain updated for any notices/ amendments/  
clarifications etc. to the RfS document through the websites https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com and www.nvvn.co.in. No separate notifications will be issued  
for such notices/ amendments/ clarifications etc. in the print media or individually. 
Intimation regarding notification on the above shall be updated on www.nvvn.co.in 
and the details only will be available from https://www.bharat-electronictender.com.
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 6 of 136 
 
SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION & INVITATION FOR BIDS 
1 Background & Introduction 
1.1 NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “NVVN”), a wholly 
Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited (Govt of India Enterprises), has been incorporated 
with the objective of, inter alia, carrying on the business of trading in electricity by 
purchasing all forms of electrical power from generating companies, captive generating 
plants (CGPs), distribution licensees, State Electricity Boards etc., and sell such 
electrical power thereof to SEBs, distribution companies / licensees and bulk power 
consumers etc. in India and abroad. Chhattisgarh has been allocated 500 MWh of 
BESS Capacity under by Ministry of Power, GoI under the Viability Gap Funding (VGF) 
scheme supported through Power System Development Fund (PSDF) for Development 
of Battery Energy St orage Systems (BESS). NVVN has been appointed by 
Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Co. Ltd. (CSPDCL) as Authorised 
Representative for conducting Bid Process on behalf of CSPDCL. 
1.2 With various global developments in technology and manufacturing, Renewable Energy 
(RE) has become the most affordable and cheapest source for meeting energy 
requirements. India has been expanding its installed RE capacity with the aim of 
reaching 500 GW b y 2030. RE from sources like solar and wind is variable and not 
available round the clock like thermal power to meet the demand. Energy Storage 
Systems (ESS) are necessary to address this challenge by storing excess energy when 
not needed and supplying it during peak demand periods. As reliance on RE increases, 
the grid experiences stress during evening and morning peaks when sufficient RE is 
not available, necessitating additional power dispatch. ESS plays a vital role in 
successfully integrating RE into the grid and assisting grid operators in managing these 
fluctuations in demand and RE supply. ESS connected to solar pooling stations also 
help in maximizing the capacity utilization of RE transmission systems. 
1.3 The above aspects rightly point out to the next course of direction of India’s energy 
planning methodology -integrating Energy Storage Systems (ESS) with existing and 
upcoming RE capacity in order to optimize generation mix while also better utilizing the 
transmission infrastructure in the country. With respect to increasing the storage 
component in the energy mix, CEA’s Report on identification of usage of storage as 
business case and for ancillary services, identifies Pumped Hydro Storage System 
(PSP) and Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) as the commercially deployed 
solutions for providing requisite storage capacity. CEA’s Report on Optimal generation 
capacity mix for the year 2029 -30 (Version 2.0), released in April, 2023, envisages a 
total installed Battery Energy Storage capacity of 41,650 MW/208,250 MWh as part of 
the installed capacity in 2029 -30. This will be in addition to 18,986 MW of Pumped 
Hydro Storage System envisaged to be a component of the installed capacity in 2029- 
30. 
1.4 Going forward, the planning process for transition to a greener energy mix in the country 
would entail integrating the planned Renewable capacity into India’s energy grid while 
ensuring its safety and reliability. Apart from Pumped Hydro Storage Plants, BESS are 
envisaged to be significant element of the future grid with increased share of renewable 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 7 of 136 
 
energy in accordance with the target of 500 GW of non -fossil-based capacity to be 
installed by 2030. BESS assets can provide the required flexibility in generation apart 
from ensuring the resource adequacy. Besides, Energy Storage Systems also have the 
potential to enable better utilization of the country’s transmission network and reducing 
network infrastructure footprint. 
1.5 Guidelines for Implementation of the RfS 
This RfS document has been prepared based on the Guidelines for “Procurement and 
Utilization of Battery Energy Storage Systems as part of Generation, Transmission and 
Distribution assets, along with Ancillary Services”, issued by Ministry of Power vide 
Gazette Notification dated 10.03.2022 and subsequent amendments and clarifications 
issued thereto until the bid submission deadline for this RfS and Viability Gap Funding 
scheme for development of Battery Energy Storage Systems supported through Power 
System Development Fund (PSDF) dated 09th June 2025 and subsequent clarifications 
and amendments issued by Ministry of Power . NVVN has issued this RfS in the capacity 
of “Authorised Representative” (hereinafter referred to as the Authorised Representative, 
or NVVN) of the Procurer i.e. Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Co. Ltd 
(CSPDCL) as defined in the aforementioned Guidelines/ amendments/ clarifications. 
 
1.6 Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Co. Ltd (CSPDCL) (hereinafter referred to as 
the Procurer, or end procurer or Buying Entity or CSPDCL) seeks to utilize energy 
storage systems, on an “On -Demand” basis, suited to the requirements of CSPDCL 
during the peak and off -peak hours. In view of the above,  the NVVN hereby invites 
proposals for setting up of STU -connected Projects of Standalone Battery Energy 
Storage Systems (BESS), for an aggregate storage capacity of 500 MWh (125 MW x 4 
hrs) with single cycle charging/discharging operation, with provision for occasional dual 
cycle per day with annual limit as 420 Cycles of BESS with project to be located in the 
State of Chhattisgarh connected with State Transmission Utility.  
 
The BESS shall be operated for occasional dual cycles in a day subject maximum of 5 
(Five) dual cycle days in a month, however subject to the annual limit of 420 cycles. 
During a Day, in any Contract Year, the Buying Entity shall not ask for / schedule any  
BESS capacity / Energy in excess of 2 cycle of charge and discharge of 4 hours at rated 
power, subject to the maximum of 35 Operational Cycles in a Calendar Month and 
within 420 Operational Cycles in a Year. 
Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Co. Ltd (Referred also as “End Procurer or 
Buying Entity or CSPDCL”) shall enter into a Battery Energy Storage Purchase 
Agreement (BESPA) with the successful Bidder selected based on this RfS, for availing 
the Energy Storage facility as per the terms, conditions a nd provisions of the RfS and 
BESPA. It is clarified that the charging power shall be provided by the Buying Entity/ 
CSPDCL. 
Being lowest bidder does not entail the bidders to be eligible for issuance of LOAs. 
LOAs shall be issued for capacity of 500MWh subject to acceptance of the discovered 
rates in this RfS by CSPDCL. The decision of CSPDCL in this regard shall be final and 
binding on the bidders. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 8 of 136 
 
1.7 Battery Energy Storage System Developer (hereinafter referred to as BESSD) selected 
by NVVN based on this RfS, shall set up the BESS on Build Own Operate (BOO) basis 
in accordance with the provisions of this RfS document and standard BESPA. BESPA 
formats s hall be available for download from the (https://www.bharat- 
electronictender.com) 
1.8 Energy Storage facility shall be procured by the CSPDCL from the above tender. 
CSPDCL shall be the End Procurer for using the energy storage facility and charging/ 
discharging the BESS in line with respective agreements with the BESSD and 
CSPDCL, based on due performance by the concerned parties. For this tranche, 100% 
of the awarded capacity shall be off taken by CSPDCL. 
1.9 The Bidders will be free to avail fiscal incentives like Accelerated Depreciation, 
Concessional Customs and Excise Duties, Tax Holidays etc. available if any for such 
Projects. The same will not have any bearing on comparison of bids for selection. As 
equal opportunity is being provided to all Bidders at the time of tendering itself, it is up 
to the Bidders to avail various tax and other benefits. No claim shall arise on NVVN/ 
CSPDCL for any liability if Bidders are not able to avail fiscal incentives and this will not 
have any bearing on the applicable tariff. NVVN shall not bear responsibility for any 
availability or non-availability of fiscal incentive and submission of the bid by the Bidder 
shall be independent of such availability or non -availability as the case may be of the 
fiscal incentives. 
1.10 Already commissioned projects cannot be considered under this RfS. Projects under 
construction or projects which are not yet commissioned will, however, be considered, 
in case these projects are not already accepted under any other Central or State 
Schemes. Enhancement and augmentation of already commissioned Projects, 
irrespective of their capacities will not be considered as eligible Project under this 
scheme. The battery capacity being installed under this tender cannot be used by the 
developer as part of the installed Project capacity demonstrated under any other tender 
concluded by any Central or State Agency as on the last date of bid submission of this 
RfS. 
1.11 Viability Gap Funding 
BESSD selected under this RfS  shall be eligible for grant of Central Financial 
Assistance in the form of Viability Gap Funding (VGF), to be released as per the 
provisions contained in this RfS. The VGF support has been earmarked for a cumulative 
BESS capacity of 500 MWh (allocated capacity to Chhattisgarh). 
2 Invitation for Bids 
2.1 A Single Stage, Two-Envelope competitive Bidding Procedure will be adopted and will 
proceed as detailed in this document. The respective rights of the Buying Entity/ 
CSPDCL and the Bidder/BESSD shall be governed by the RfS Documents/Agreements 
signed between the CSPDCL and the BESSD. 
2.2 Interested bidders have to necessarily register themselves on the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com (“ETS portal”) through M/s Electronic Tender.com (India) Pvt. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 9 of 136 
 
Limited to participate in the bidding under this invitation for bids. It shall be the sole 
responsibility of the interested Bidders to get themselves registered at the aforesaid 
portal for which they are required to contact Bharat ETS e -bidding portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com to complete the registration formalities. 
They may obtain further information regarding this RfS from the registered office of 
NVVN at the address given on the Bid Information Sheet from 10:00 hours to 17:00 
hours on all working days. 
For proper uploading of the bids on the Bharat ETS e-bidding portal, it shall be the sole 
responsibility of the Bidders to apprise themselves adequately regarding all the relevant 
procedures and provisions as detailed in the portal as well as by contacting Bharat ETS 
e-bidding portal directly, as and when required, for which contact details are also 
mentioned on the Bid Information Sheet. NVVN in no case shall be responsible for any 
issues related to timely or properly uploading/ submission of the bid in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of the Bidding Documents. 
2.3 Bidders should submit their bid proposal complete in all aspect on or before last date 
and time of Bid Submission as mentioned on the Bharat ETS e -bidding portal, the 
NVVN website (www.nvvn.co.in) indicated in the Bid Information Sheet. 
2.4 Bidder shall submit bid proposal along with non -refundable Bid Processing Fees and 
Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) complete in all respect as per the Bid Information Sheet. 
Bid proposals received without the stipulated Bid Processing Fees and EMD, will be 
rejected. In the event of any date indicated being declared a holiday, the next working 
day shall become operative for the respective purpose mentioned herein. 
2.5 RfS documents which include Eligibility Criteria, Technical Specifications, various 
Conditions of Contract, Formats etc. can be downloaded from Bharat ETS e -bidding 
portal or from NVVN’s website. It is mandatory to download official copy of the RfS 
Document from Bharat ETS e-bidding portal (https://www.bharat-electronictender.com) 
to participate in the Tender. Any amendment(s)/corrigendum(s)/clarification(s) with 
respect to this RfS shall be uploaded on Bharat ETS e -bidding portal 
(https://www.bharat-electronictender.com). The Bidder should regularly check for any 
Amendment(s)/Corrigendum(s)/Clarification(s) on the above mentioned 
(https://www.bharat-electronictender.com) website. The same may also be uploaded 
on the NVVN’s website. However, in case of any discrepancy, the information available 
on https://www.bharat-electronictender.com) website shall prevail. 
2.6 NVVN shall conduct e-Reverse Auction (e-RA) as per provisions of RfS documents. 
2.7 NVVN reserves the right to cancel/ withdraw/ defer this invitation for bids without 
assigning any reason and shall bear no liability whatsoever consequent upon such a 
decision. 
2.8 Interpretations 
a. Words comprising the singular shall include the plural & vice versa. 
b. An applicable law shall be construed as reference to such applicable law including 
its amendments or re-enactments from time to time. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 10 of 136 
 
c. A time of day shall save as otherwise provided in any agreement or document be 
construed as a reference to Indian Standard Time. 
d. Different parts of this contract are to be taken as mutually explanatory and 
supplementary to each other and if there is any differentiation between or among the 
parts of this contract, they shall be interpreted in a harmonious manner so as to give 
effect to each part. 
e. The table of contents and any headings or subheadings in the contract has been 
inserted for case of reference only & shall not affect the interpretation of this 
document.
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 11 of 136 
 
SECTION 2. SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
3 Scope of Work 
3.1 Under this RfS, the BESSD shall be required to set up a Battery Energy Storage System 
(BESS), with the primary objective of making the energy storage facility available to the 
Buying Entity i.e., CSPDCL for charging/discharging of the BESS, on an “on demand” 
basis. Detailed criteria for performance are elaborated in Clause 8 of the RfS. 
3.2 Setting up of the BESS and interconnection of the BESS with the STU network will be 
under the scope of the BESSD. The construction of Bay is in the scope of Chhattisgarh 
State Power Transmission Company Limited (CSPTCL) . Entire Operation & 
maintenance of BESS including safety of the equipment / personnel will be under the 
scope of the BESSD. This RfS is technology agnostic on the nature of battery storage 
system being opted by the BESSD, as long as it meets the definitio n of BESS under 
this RfS and the required performance criteria under the RfS and BESPA. 
3.3 The BESS shall be charged by drawing power from CSPDCL and inject power to 
CSPDCL network in accordance with the dispatch instructions issued by SLDC/ Power 
Management Cell in consultation with CSPDCL. CSPDCL will provide required power 
for charging BESS. Scheduling of charging and discharging of BESS shall be under the 
scope of CSPDCL. 
4 Total capacity offered and Project sizing. 
4.1 Selection of BESS Projects for a total capacity of 125 MW/ 500 MWh will be carried out 
through e-bidding followed by e-Reverse Auction process. The minimum bid size shall 
be 500 MWh i.e. 125 MW x 4 hours and the detail of the project is furnished in 
Annexure-E. The project size shall be quoted as 125 MW X 4 hrs (500MWh). 
For project size of 125 MW/ 500 MWh, approximately 10-acre of land will be allotted to 
the BESSD. 
Selection of Project Developers will be carried out based on the Tariff (Storage Charge) 
offered by the Bidders. In this context, the term “Project” used anywhere in the RfS, and 
BESPA, will solely mean the BESS, set up by the BESSD to make available the 
Contracted Capacity as agreed to in the BESPA. 
4.2 For the specified Contracted Capacity, any over sizing of the BESS over the minimum 
rated Energy capacities required under this RfS is left to the discretion of the BESSD. 
However, it is to be noted that, at the time of commissioning, rated capacity of the BESS 
(Power and Energy) to be installed as indicated in the BESPA, will be verified 
4.3 Project Configuration: 
The Projects shall be set up in the vicinity of the Khedamara Substation, as below: 
S. 
No. 
Name of the Substation Location Connectivity 
voltage 
Proposed 
BESS 
capacity in 
MW/ MWh 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 12 of 136 
 
1. Khedamara Substation Durg 220 kV 125/ 500 
 
5 Maximum Contracted Capacity Allocation for a Bidder 
Following conditions shall be applicable to the Bidders for submission of bids against 
this RfS: 
5.1 The total capacity of 125 MW/ 500 MWh, shall be set up, as shown in Annexure – E. A 
Bidder, including its Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company shall 
submit a single bid offering a Project Capacity of complete 125 MW / 500 MWh in the 
prescribed formats. The Project Capacity to be quoted shall be in the form of “x” 
MW/”4x” MWh, i.e. the BESS system shall be rated for 4 hours’ charging and 4 hours 
discharging in 1 cycle. 
Note: In case a common Company/Companies directly or indirectly hold(s) more than 
10% but less than 26% shareholding in more than one Bidder participating in the RfS, 
each of such Bidders will be required to submit the Disclosure as per Format 7.8A. In 
all other cases, Format 7.8 will be applicable. 
5.2 The cumulative Project Capacity to be allocated to a Bidder including its Parent, Affiliate 
or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company shall be limited to 125 MW/ 500 MWh. 
5.3 The evaluation of bids shall be carried out as described in Section -4 of RfS. The 
methodology for Allocation of Projects is elaborated in Section-4 of RfS. 
5.4 Subject to the exception as per Clause 5.1 above, multiple bids from same company 
including its Parent/ Ultimate Parent/Affiliates/Group Companies shall make all the bids 
submitted by the group invalid 
6 Project Location 
6.1 The total Project capacity of 125 MW /500 MWh shall be located in the vicinity of 220 
kV Substation at Khedamara, Durg, Chhattisgarh of the STU network as per information 
mentioned in Annexure-E, in the state of Chhattisgarh. Land allocation for the Projects 
will be under the scope of CSPDCL owning the identified substation. Land will be 
provided on right-to use basis to the BESSD at annual lease charge of Rs 1 per project 
per year through suitable agreement with CSPDCL. Project land details are enclosed 
herewith at Annexure-E. The bidders as discovered after the e-Reverse auction, will be 
provided land area as mentioned in table below.  
Sl Project Name of 
Substation 
Propo
sed 
BESS 
Capac
ity in 
MWh 
Bay Availability Interconne
cting 
Voltage 
(kV) 
Space 
Availability 
(in Acres) 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 13 of 136 
 
1 125 
MW 
Khedamara
, Durg, 
Chhattisgar
h 
500 Bay shall be 
constructed by 
Chhattisgarh 
State Power 
Transmission 
Company 
Limited 
(CSPTCL) 
220 10 
6.2 The land area will be given to the BESSD by CSPDCL for Right of Use (ROU) within 
60 days from the signing of the BESPA as per provisions of RfS. In case of any delay 
in signing of ROU agreement of land to the BESSD, the Financial Closure and 
Commissioning milestones will be suitably extended. 
6.3  
a) The layout and single line diagram of Khedamara .. sub- station is enclosed as part of 
Annexure–E, clearly showing the BESS area. Land clearing for project installation 
shall be in the scope of the BESSD. 
b) The area identified for BESS is also identified as per enclosed layout. For approach 
to BESS, it is required to construct the approach road separately by the BESSD for 
accessing the Project, without hindering the O&M activities of the sub-station. 
c) As Battery Energy Storage System is prone to fire hazard, the BESSD shall provide 
suitable means such as fire barrier between switchyard and BESS to avoid fire to 
spread from BESS to Yard equipment. 
d) The bidders are encouraged to visit the proposed project location prior to submission 
of bids. Any further requests regarding construction of bay or site shall not be 
entertained after bid submission.  
e) Contact details of concerned officers from CSPDCL for the site visit are as follows: 
S. No Substation Name Contact Details 
 
1. 
 
Khedamara, Durg, 
Chhattisgarh 
Mr. Vivek Awasthy, 
CSPDCL 
Mob No: 9202223732 
 
6.4 After the expiry/termination of the BESPA, the entire land area allocated to the BESSD 
shall be returned to CSPDCL in the same condition or in mutually agreed condition as 
it was allocated. The duration of the land Right to Use agreement shall be co-extensive 
and co-terminus with the duration of the BESPA. If the BESSD does not vacate the 
allocated land area and/or does not uninstall the entire Project equipment from the 
designated land area upon expiry/termination of the BESPA within 180 days of expiry/ 
termination of BESPA, CSPDCL shall charge the applicable market price/circle rate for 
the respective land parcels, as fixed by the concerned Revenue Authorities of the 
Government, as part of penalty on the BESSD till they hand over the land in same 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 14 of 136 
 
condition as it was allocated.  
7 Connectivity with the Grid 
7.1 Projects should be designed for interconnection with the State Transmission Network 
(STU) network in accordance with the prevailing CERC/CSERC regulations, Grid 
Connectivity and Intra-state Open Access Regulations and amendments thereto, in this 
regard. For interconnection with the grid and metering, the BESSD shall abide by all 
rules and regulations framed under the Electricity Act, 2003 including the applicable 
Grid Code, Grid Connectivity Standards, Regulations on Communication System for 
transmission of electricity and other Regulations/Procedures (as amended from time to 
time) issued by Appropriate Commissions and Central Electricity Authority (CEA). 
Under this RFS, the voltage for interconnection at the STU shall be 220 kV. BESSD 
shall also comply with  the applicable requirements mentioned in the First Time 
Charging (FTC) regulations/rules issued by the Central/State Government, as amended 
from time to time. The term Grid network/substation wherever indicated in the 
RfS/BESPA shall refer to the “STU network”, wherever applicable. 
7.2 The project shall be interconnected to the CSPDCL sub -station as per Annexure–E in 
Chhattisgarh. Necessary applications for grant of connectivity will be required to be 
made by the BESSD. All the requisite costs associated with obtaining connectivity shall 
be borne by the BESSD. 
7.3 The responsibility of getting connectivity with the transmission system of the STU shall 
entirely be of the BESSD and shall be at the cost of the BESSD, in line with applicable 
regulations. The transmission of power up to the point of interconnection, wher e 
metering is done for energy accounting, shall be the responsibility of the BESSD at its 
own cost. The maintenance of Transmission system up to the interconnection point on 
the BESS side shall be responsibility of the BESSD, to be undertaken entirely at its risk 
and cost. 
7.4 The entire cost of construction of infrastructure from the Project upto and including at 
the Interconnection Point, including but not limited to the transmission line, maintenance 
& all cost up to the delivery point shall be borne by the BESSD. The mainten ance of 
the Transmission system up to the interconnection point shall be the responsibility of 
the BESSD, to be undertaken entirely at its cost and expense. The SLDC/Scheduling 
charges, connectivity and other charges shall be payable by BESSD. 
7.5 The BESSD shall be required to follow the Detailed Procedure as issued by CERC/ 
CTU/ STU /SERC as applicable, regarding connectivity of the Project. The Project shall 
comply with all the technical requirements specified under CEA/CEIG, including 
subsequent amendments and clarifications issued thereto, as well as other 
Rules/Regulations issued by SERC/CERC/CEA/CEIG and as amended from time to 
time. It is further clarified that the Entities (BESSD and Buying Entity) as indicated in 
the procedure issued under the above Rules/Regulations, will be responsible for their 
respective obligation as notified in the procedure, irrespective of the provisions of the 
RfS, and BESPA. The Project shall also comply with the SERC/CEIG/CEA (Measures 
relating to Safety and Electric Supply) Regulations, including subsequent amendments 
and clarifications issued thereto. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 15 of 136 
 
Important Notes: 
(i) Bidders must make note of the information pertaining to the land allocated for the 
project.  
(ii) Tentative coordinates of the Interconnection point shall be provided. 
All associated equipments and protection system of BESS shall be compatible with the 
existing Substation system. Provision for communicating both real time data and 
metering data to SLDC and control room of Khedamara Substation shall be ensured 
and are under the scope of BESSD. 
7.6 Metering arrangement of the Project shall have to be adhered to in line with relevant 
clause of the BESPA. All relevant parameters of energy injected and drawn by the 
project shall be measured and continuously recorded by means of a main meter, check 
meter and standby meter as specified by CSPDCL. Power Quality Meter shall also be 
provided as per extant regulations. 
7.7 The BESSD shall comply with CSERC/ CERC regulations on Forecasting, Scheduling 
and Deviation Settlement, as applicable from time to time. The scheduling of power 
to/from the Project as per the applicable regulation shall be provided by the CSPDCL. 
However, any DSM penalties due to violation of the schedule of charging or discharging 
of the BESS due to reasons attributable to BESS shall be to the account of the BESSD. 
DSM penalties, if any, shall be levied separately on the respective entities as applicable, 
at their respective ends for the charging and discharging activities. Any consequential 
liability on CSPDCL in respect of charging/ discharging power purchase/ sale due to 
Deviation (DSM) at BESS end shall be to the account of BESSD. Bidder must ensure 
necessary metering arrangement like SCADA-AMR. 
7.8 In order to remove potential discrepancies and ambiguities, the BESSDs are hereby 
instructed that, as part of scheduling of power to/from the Project, they will be required 
to punch-in their respective schedules and subsequent revisions, by themselves, at the 
interfaces of the SLDC concerned for the corridor of power flow, including the 
Transmission Utility, as per the provisions in this RfS, regulations in force, under 
intimation to SLDC. CSPDCL may facilitate in identification of any discrepancy and 
assist the BESSD for its early rectification without any liability on CSPDCL. The BESSD 
shall be solely responsible for discrepancy identification and its rectification to avoid 
any rejection/loss payment of invoices. 
7.9 DSM penalties, if any, shall be levied separately on the BESSD as applicable, at their 
BESSD ends for the charging and discharging activities as per CERC/ CSERC 
regulations. 
7.10 Reactive power charges shall be on account of the BESSD as applicable, at the BESSD 
end during charging and discharging, as per CERC/CSERC regulations. It is to be 
ensured that Harmonics has to be maintained within the prescribed limit as per the 
Regulations/Procedures (as amended from time to time) issued by Appropriate 
Commissions and Central Electricity Authority (CEA). 
7.11 The BESSD shall be required to follow the applicable Procedure for Grant of 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 16 of 136 
 
connectivity as issued by CSERC as well as other Regulations issued by CSERC/CEA 
as amended from time to time. The BESSDs will be required to apply for connectivity 
at the identified substations within 30 days of signing of BESPA and shall furnish copies 
of the application as well as granted connectivity, to CE (REES&PED) at the earliest. 
In case the BESSD fails to obtain the connectivity at a Substation identified, the same 
shall be immediately notified by the BESSD to CE (REES&PED). At least 30 days prior 
to the proposed commissioning date, the BESSD shall be required to submit the 
Connectivity Agreement signed with the STU/ CSPDCL to CE (REES&PED). 
7.12 The responsibility of complying with Central Electricity Regulatory Commission 
(Connectivity and General Network Access to the Inter -State Transmission System) 
Regulations, 2022 as indicated in the Detailed Procedure issued subsequently under 
the above Reg ulation vests with the BESSD. It is further clarified that the Entities 
(BESSD and Buying Entity), will be responsible for their respective obligations as 
notified in the applicable Regulations irrespective of the provisions of the RfS and 
BESPA. 
Prior approval of design of Earth mat being laid by the BESSD shall be obtained from 
CSPTCL. The scheme of Protection shall also be similarly got approved and the status 
of Interconnecting Circuit Breaker, Isolators shall be made available for integrating to 
the SCADA of the Sub-Station. The Current, Voltage and Power parameters at BESS 
Bay shall be provided available for integrating to the SCADA of the Sub-Station. 
The BESSD is required to place all the Control & Relay panels and RTU required for 
Data Transfer at separate control room at BESS premises. Independent RTU shall be 
provided by the developer and the SCADA Screen of BESS shall be shared to 
Substation Control room and SLDC in developers scope. The transfer of data to SLDC 
and to KhedamaraSubstation Control room shall be in entire scope of the BESSD 
including internet connectivity. Cyber Security measures shall be complied with by the 
BESSD. All provisions of Make in India (MII) orders and orders related to Cyber Security 
issued by the government must be complied with, in all the activities involved in the 
project(s) from start to completion. 
The specifications of the Interconnecting Transformer shall be pre -approved by 
CSPTCL. The timeline for approval shall be thirty days from submission of application 
in this regard. 
8 Performance Criteria of the Project 
8.1 Project performance parameters 
a. The Contracted Capacity of the Project shall be in terms of “MW”, which shall also be 
referred to as the Project Capacity. CSPDCL’s obligation shall be for off -take of entire 
Contracted Capacity and energy at Delivery point. 
b.  For example, for the Project Capacity of 125 MW/ 500 MWh, Contracted Capacity shall 
be 500 MWh. The BESPA shall entitle CSPDCL to schedule discharge upto 500 MWh 
of energy from the BESS in single cycle, subject to the following: 
i. CSPDCL will schedule charging of the BESS with equal amount of energy plus 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 17 of 136 
 
energy expected to be lost as conversion losses (determined from the guaranteed 
Round-Trip Efficiency (RtE) of the system). 
Illustration: For a Contracted Capacity of 125 MW/500 MWh, assuming an RtE of 
85%, CSPDCL shall schedule and supply charging power to the tune of 588.24 
MWh, to expect a discharge of 500 MWh as per the desired schedule. 
ii. Energy scheduled for discharge in a given cycle during a year shall be more than 
or equal to the Min. Dispatchable Energy Capacity at the End of Year as specified  
under Article 4.4.2.(c) of BESPA and as per Clause 8.1.e.iv. below.  
For example, during the end of the 3rd Year after COD, the energy scheduled for 
discharge from 125 MW/ 500 MWh capacity shall be more than or equal to 125 x 
0.925 x 4 = 462.5 MWh. 
iii. Contracted capacity shall be the project capacity at delivery point. CSPDCL shall 
provide the charging energy factoring the RtE, as per specified RtE in RfS. The 
total Project Capacity shall be for supply to and offtake by CSPDCL and there will 
be no merch ant capacity. The BESS shall adhere to the specifications and 
performance requirements laid out in Annexure-A of the RfS in this regard. 
c. Power rating of the project capacity of 500 MWh (125 MW x 4 hrs) BESS will be 125 
MW, i.e., the maximum value of the active output at the Delivery Point. Input energy 
shall be provided by CSPDCL at delivery point for contract capacity as illustrated in 8.1 
(b). The Energy rating of 500 MWh of the system will be the dispatchable capacity at 
COD of the system, as measured at the Metering Point. Terms and definitions of 
terminologies related to BESS shall be as defined in IEC 62933-2-1. 
d. The BESSD shall make the BESS available for Single operational cycles per day , 
i.e. One complete charge-discharge cycle per day.  
Provided that CSPDCL, at its discretion, can split the discharge of the stored energy  
one or two sessions, but not more than two. However, Buying Entity, at its sole 
discretion, can schedule the discharging of the BESS in one or two sessions each day, 
at rated power or stretching up to 8 hours when discharged below rated power. 
Illustration: (At rated Power) 
Sl No: Session-1 Session-2 
1 4 hours -- 
2 3 hours 1 hours 
3 2 hours 2 hours 
4 1 hours 3 hours 
Similarly, the charging cycle may, if required, shall be performed in a single session or 
in two sessions, at rated power or, stretching upto 10 Hours when charged at below 
rated power, at sole discretion of Buying Entity. 
 
e. Following provisions shall be applicable on  the entire Project Capacity guaranteed to 
be off taken by CSPDCL: 
i. The procurement shall be in power (MW) terms. The BESSD shall install, operate 
and maintain the BESS to offer facility to CSPDCL to charge and discharge the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 18 of 136 
 
BESS on an “on demand” basis. The BESSD shall guarantee a minimum 
system availability of 95% on monthly basis . The BESSD shall pay the 
liquidated damages for shortfall, if any, to CSPDCL. Amount of such liquidated 
damages shall be twice the Storage Tariff for the capacity not made available.  
The BESSD shall declare availability on Day Ahead Basis. The BESSD should 
provide the DC (Declared Capacity) for each time block for the day before 09:00 
hours the previous day. The tentative instructions for scheduling of charging and 
discharging will be issued by SLDC by 15:00 hours on the previous day. 
Schedule revisions will be issued by SLDC upto two clear 15-minute time blocks 
prior to the schedule period. However, as per Grid requirements, the SLDC shall 
request real-time schedule revisions, which shall be implemented real time and 
no later than the end of next time block. 
Revisions to the Declared Capacity (DC) by the BESSD shall be submitted at 
least six clear 15 -minute time block in advance. Frequent revision to DC, 
especially during evening peak hours, shall not be entertained and no more than 
two such revisions shall be permitted from 18:00 to 22:00 hours in a month. The 
discharge schedule from SLDC shall not be altered in such cases and will be 
treated as shortfall in discharge commitment. 
 
ii. “Availability” of the Project shall mean the ability of the BESS to execute a 
function i.e. charging or discharging, when called upon to do so, as per the 
schedule or signal provided by the off -taker, subject to the minimum system 
ratings specified herein.  In addition, the BESSD shall also demonstrate , on 
annual basis, 100% of the minimum dispatchable capacity of the BESS as 
required under Clause 8.1.e.iv below. 
For a given BESPA, the monthly availability guarantee shall commence from the 
date of fully commissioning of the system and shall be calculated as below: 
Monthly System Availability = Mean of the System availabilities of all 
time-blocks during the month in which the CSPDCL has scheduled 
power for charging/ discharging the BESS. 
Where, 
System Availability in a time-block= 
 𝐴𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 Injection/ 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑙 𝑀𝑈𝑖(𝐴)  , 𝑆𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑙𝑒𝑑 Injection/Drawl MUi(B) 
where 
a) i refers to the ith time-block in the Month where Scheduled Injection/ Drawl 
MUi ≠ 0. 
b) Actual Injection/ Drawl MUi is the Actual Scheduled for Charging/ 
Discharging in the ith time-block, in MUs 
c) Scheduled Injection/ Drawl MUi  is the Energy Scheduled for Charging in 
the ith time-block, in MUs 
d) A and B shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports published by the SLDC or 
measurement at the Main ABT Meter at the Point of Interconnection. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 19 of 136 
 
System Monthly availability shall be calculated as per above, and System 
Annual Availability shall be calculated as illustrated in 8.1 (e).1. The 
liquidated damages for system availability below 95% shall be settled on 
monthly basis and if it is not able to settle in the same/ current month, it will 
be carried forward for settlement in subsequent month(s). 
iii. The BESSD shall guarantee a minimum AC to AC roundtrip efficiency (RtE) 
of 85% for the system on monthly basis. The BESSD shall be liable for 
Liquidated Damages to the off -taker, if any, on account of excess conversion 
losses, based on the following conditions: 
(a) For RtE <70%, there shall be a liquidated damage @ 1.5 times of Average 
Power Purchase Cost (APPC) tariff of previous financial year applicable to 
the Buying Entity , levied upon the excess conversion losses, considering 
system RtE = 85% and tariff payment for the corresponding month shall not 
be made to the BESSD; 
(b) For 70% ≤ RtE < 85%, there shall be a liquidated damage levied  1.5 times 
of @ APPC tariff of previous financial year applicable to the Buying Entity, 
levied upon excess conversion losses considering system RtE = 85%. 
(c) For RtE is less than 70% for six months in a year will be considered as 
material breach/ default of the BESSD. 
(For example – please refer to Annexure-D (point-c)). 
System Roundtrip Efficiency = 
= 𝑆𝑢𝑚 𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑜𝑓 𝐴𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 𝐼𝑛𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛/𝐷𝑖𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑀𝑈𝑠𝑗 𝑖𝑛 𝑎 𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑡ℎ (𝐶)
𝑆𝑢𝑚 𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑜𝑓 𝐴𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 𝐷𝑟𝑎𝑤𝑎𝑙/𝐶ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑀𝑈𝑠𝑗 𝑖𝑛 𝑎 𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑡ℎ (𝐷)  
Where, 
 
j refers to the jth month in a year; 
D ≠ 0; 
D <= 2 x Ebess x (MDn-1 – (MDn-1 – MDn) x j/12) x No of Days 
in the jth month/ RtEg;  
Ebess refers to Energy Rating specified in Clause 8.1.b. above; 
MDn-1 refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the 
previous year (as a % of Capacity at the COD specified in Clause 8.1.e.iv. 
below); 
MDn refers to minimum guaranteed dispatchable energy at the end of the 
current year; 
RtEg refers to the guaranteed Round-Trip Efficiency under the BESPA; 
C and D shall be as per the DSM/UI Reports/ State Energy Account 
published by the Regional RPCs/SLDCs or measurement at the Main ABT 
Meter at the Point of Interconnection. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 20 of 136 
 
For calculation of LD, RtE shall be calculated based on the above formula 
rounded off to three decimal places. 
Note: 
● The Scheduled capacity shall be subject to the System Power Rating 
specified in Clause 8.1.a. above and 8.1.b above. 
● The BESSD shall take separate, metered connection for the Auxiliary 
Power load of BESS 
or 
The BESSD can draw auxiliary power from Interconnection point. Separate 
meter shall be provided by Developer to measure Auxiliary consumption and that 
would be billed by Discom @ Industrial Tariff excluding demand charges, subject 
to approval of Hon’ble CSERC. 
iv. Taking into consideration capacity degradation, the minimum dispatchable 
capacity to be made available by the BESSD at the end of a given year shall be 
as follows: 
 
Table 01 
Contract 
Year 
Min. Dispatchable Capacity at the end of 
Year (as a % of Capacity at the Beginning 
of Life/Final COD) 
(A) 
Min. Dispatchable 
Capacity in 
corresponding 
Contract Year (in 
MWh) 
(B) 
1 97.5% 500.00 
2 95.0% 487.50 
3 92.5% 475.00 
4 90.0% 462.50 
5 90.0% 450.00 
6 90.0% 450.00 
7 90.0% 450.00 
8 90.0% 450.00 
9 90.0% 450.00 
10 90.0% 450.00 
11 90.0% 450.00 
12 90.0% 450.00 
13 90.0% 450.00 
14 90.0% 450.00 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 21 of 136 
 
15 90.0% 450.00 
 
v. The nameplate ratings shall be achievable during discharge for the full range of 
environmental conditions at the project site when the battery is fully charged. In 
any case, the BESS shall be capable of being discharged at reduced power levels 
from that specified above. However, the energy discharged from the battery shall 
not require to be greater than the nameplate watt-hour rating specified herein. For 
example, during the end of the 3rd Year after COD, the energy scheduled for 
discharge from 125 MW capac ity shall be more than or equal to 125x0.925x4 
=462.5 MWh. 
vi. Monthly Tariff payment payable by Buying Entity to BESSD shall be as per the 
formula below 
Monthly Tariff Payment (Rs) = A x B x 1000 x n 
where, 
A is Storage Tariff Rs/kWh as discovered through bidding process; 
B is Min. Dispatchable Capacity in corresponding Contract Year (in MWh) as 
per Column (B) of Table 01 above. 
n is the maximum of number of days in that particular month  for which monthly 
storage payment is calculated 
vii. SLDC in consultation with CSPDCL shall, in accordance with Applicable Laws 
and Regulations thereunder, issue instructions to the BESSD on behalf of 
CSPDCL for dispatch of electricity to the Grid during such period and in such 
volume as it may specify in it s instructions. The BESSD shall clearly specify the 
maximum recovery times required to restore the BESS for functional availability 
between duty cycles. The maximum allowed cooling time between Charge to 
Discharge or Discharge to charge would be 1 hr. Ther e shall be no cooling or 
recovery time between two same sessions during charging or discharging 
operation. 
viii. Operational Window:  Operational Window shall mean the expected 
hours/duration of system (capacity) availability on each day during the term of 
the Contract, excluding: 
a. Maximum BESS recovery time as specified in this document 
b. Grid Outages (duly certified to this effect by the Grid Operator) 
c. Planned Maintenance Outage duly informed by the BESSD to the off -taker 
with at least one month’s prior notice, subject to total no. of planned outage 
period being not more than 34 hours in a two-month period. 
d. The Scheduled maintenance must be carried out, subject to prior approval 
from CSPDCL. 
BESSD will have to comply with the Charging and Discharging Schedule as 
intimated by SLDC.  
ix. In addition to above, the BESSD shall also submit Available Energy Test Report 
for the Project Capacity as per IEC 62933-2-1 on Annual basis. 
x. It shall be the responsibility of the BESSD to make periodic 
replacements/replenishments of system capacities at its own cost to ensure 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 22 of 136 
 
annual guaranteed system ratings, if and when required, up to the Term of the 
Contract. Outage time as a result of replacement will also be counted as an 
“Accountable BESS Outage” for the purpose of computing BESS Availability. 
f. Pursuant to the provisions as above, the BESSD shall plan the dispatch of electricity 
and convey its availability for scheduling thereof by the SLDC and shall supply 
electricity in accordance with the provisions of the Grid Code and the Electricity Act, 
2003. The BESSD shall adhere to all the technical requirements as brought out in 
Annexure-A of the RfS. The BESS shall conform to all the applicable standards of 
CEA/CEIG and regulations of CERC/CSERC/ CEA for connectivity, metering, 
communication with the grid operators, etc. 
8.2 Shortfall in meeting Performance Criteria 
Following provisions shall be applicable on the Contracted Capacity guaranteed to be 
offtaken by CSPDCL: 
i. Shortfall in demonstrating minimum Availability : Subsequent to COD of full Project 
capacity or capacity accepted by CSPDCL, in case the annual Availability  during 
Charging Cycles demonstrated by the BESSD is less than the minimum as specified 
above, such shortfall in performance shall make the BESSD liable to pay th e 
liquidated damages to CSPDCL. 
Liquidated damages on account of shortfall in meeting the minimum Availability 
criteria as per Clause 8.1.e.i., will be computed as follows: 
Liquidated damages in Rs. = (C – D) x B x 1000 x A x n x 2.0 where 
where, 
C is Guaranteed Monthly Availability (in %) as per Clause 8.1.f.i. above; 
D is Actual Monthly System Availability (in %) , as calculated as per Clause 8.1.f.ii. 
above; 
A is Storage Charges Rs/kWh as discovered through bidding process; 
B is Min. Dispatchable Capacity in corresponding Contract Year (in MWh) as 
per Column (B) of Table 01 above.  
n is the number of days in that particular month for which monthly storage payment 
is calculated 
 
In case of the BESS failing to meet minimum 50% of the stipulated availability 
applicable for a particular Contract Year as per Clause 8.1.f.4 above, for a cumulative 
period of 2 years or more during the Term of the BESPA, the shortfall shall be 
considered as BESSD Event of Default under the BESPA, and failure to rectify this 
Event will result in termination of the BESPA. 
 
ii. Shortfall in demonstrating minimum Round-trip-Efficiency: In case the BESSD fails 
to meet the monthly RtE demonstration as per Clause 8.1.f.iii above, Liquidated 
Damages for the shortfall in required minimum RtE shall be applicable for the month. 
It is clarified that the calculation of Availability as per Clause 8.1.f.ii of the RfS will 
not include the planned outage as declared by the BESSD under Clause 8.1.f.vii of 
the RfS. However, in case the BESSD notifies any outage outside the planned 
outage hours, while CSPDCL may not actually schedule any power injection/drawl 
during those outage hours, such hours will be covered in calculating the Monthly 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 23 of 136 
 
Availability as per Clause 8.1.f.ii. 
For example, in case the BESSD notifies outage for 10 hours outside the total 
allocated quota of planned outage amounting to (34 x 6) hours, i.e. 204 hours, the 
denominator of the formula in Clause 8.1.f.ii above will include the time -blocks 
corresponding to these 10 hours, and exclude the 204 hours of planned outage. 
However, this damage shall not be leviable to the extent the availability of system is 
affected due to Force Majeure event as specified under the agreement. An 
illustration to this effect is enclosed at Annexure-D. 
 
9 Commissioning of Projects 
The Commissioning of the Project shall be carried out by the BESSD in line with the 
procedure as per the BESPA.  
The BESSD shall commission the Project in line with provisions of the SERC/CERC 
(Indian Electricity Grid Code) Regulations, 2023, as amended from time to time. In line 
with this regulation, the BESSD proposing the Project, or its part, for commissioning, 
shall give to CSPDCL, a preliminary notice not later than 60 days prior and advance 
notice not later than 30 days prior to the proposed commissioning date. CSPDCL may 
authorize any individual or committee or organization to witness and validate the 
commissioning procedure on site. Commissioning certificates shall be issued by 
CSPDCL after successful commissioning. The BESSD shall obtain necessary safety 
clearances from the Central Electricity Authority/CEIG/ State Electrical Inspectorate prior 
to the commissioning of the Project. 
9.1 Part Commissioning 
Part commissioning of the Project, without prejudice to the imposition of any liquidated 
damages in terms of the BESPA on the part which is not commissioned, shall be 
accepted by CSPDCL subject to the condition that the minimum part commissioning 
capacity for the 1 st part will be 50% of Project Capacity or 50 MW whichever is lower. 
The total number of instalments in which a Project can be commissioned will not be 
more than 3, i.e., 1st initial instalment of 50 MW or 50% of the project capacity, whichever 
is lower and 2 subsequent instalments. 
However, the SCD will not get altered due to part commissioning. Irrespective of dates 
of part commissioning or full commissioning, the BESPA will remain in force for a period 
as per Clause 22.5 of the RfS. 
9.2 Commissioning Schedule and Liquidated Damages not amounting to Penalty for 
Delay in Commissioning 
a. The Scheduled Commissioning Date (SCD) for commissioning of the full capacity of the 
Project shall be the date as on 18 months from the Effective Date of BESPA (for e.g. if 
Effective Date of the BESPA is 05.12.2025, then SCD shall be 04.06.2027). 
b. The maximum time period  allowed for commissioning of the full Project Capacity with 
applicable liquidated damages, shall be limited to the date as on 6 months from the SCD 
or the extended SCD (if applicable). 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 24 of 136 
 
c. In case of delay in commissioning of the Project beyond the SCD until the date as per 
Clause 9.2.b. above, as part of liquidated damages, the total PBG amount for the Project 
shall be encashed on per -day-basis and proportionate to the balance capacity not 
commissioned. For example, in case of a Project Capacity of 125 MW capacity, if 
commissioning of 100 MW capacity is delayed by 18 days beyond the SCD, then the 
liquidated damages shall be calculated as: PBG amount X (100/125) X (18/180). For the 
purpose of calculations of liquidated damages, ‘month’ shall be considered consisting of 
30 days. 
d. As an alternative to the above encashment of PBG, the BESSD may choose to make a 
payment of the amount corresponding to the liquidated damages, directly to the CSPDCL. 
The BESSD shall intimate to CSPDCL, its chosen alternative out of the two options, within 
10 business days of intimation of the liquidated damages to the BESSD, as calculated by 
the CSPDCL. In case no response is received from the BESSD until the lapse of the 
above deadline, CSPDCL may encash the PBG for the amount as per the liquidated 
damages. In case the Developer chooses to make necessary payments in lieu of the 
liquidated damages, the said payment shall be credited to the CSPDCL’s account through 
NEFT payment, no later than 5 business days from the above intimation by the BESSD. 
In case o f non-payment by the developer within the above deadline, the PBG will be 
encashed by the CSPDCL on the next business day. 
e. In case Commissioning of the Project is delayed beyond the date as per Clause 9.2.b 
above, the BESPA capacity shall stand reduced/amended to the Project Capacity 
commissioned until the deadline as per Clause 9.2.b. above, the entire PBG will be 
encashed by the CSPDCL, and the BESPA for the Project shall stand terminated for the 
balance un-commissioned capacity. 
f. It is clarified that for the purpose of commissioning, the Project Capacity shall refer to the 
rated capacity of the Energy Storage System as declared by the BESSD in the BESPA. 
Any reduction in the Project Capacity on account of Clause 9.2.e above, will h ave no 
bearing on the obligation of the BESSD to provide the Contracted Capacity as per the 
BESPA. 
10 Delay in Commissioning on Account of Delay in readiness of STU evacuation 
infrastructure/ Start Date of Connectivity 
Subsequent to grant of connectivity, in case there is a delay in readiness of the STU 
substation at the Delivery Point, including readiness of the power evacuation and 
transmission infrastructure of the STU network until SCD of the Project, or delay in Start 
Date of Connectivity, and it is established that:: 
i. The BESSD has complied with the complete application formalities as per 
Clause 7 above, 
ii. The BESSD has adhered to the applicable Regulations/Procedures in this regard 
as notified by the CSERC/STU, and 
iii. The delay in grant of connectivity by the STU and/or delay in readiness of the 
substation at the Delivery Point, including readiness of the power evacuation and 
transmission infrastructure of the STU network, is a factor attributable to the 
STU/transmission licensee and is beyond the control of the BESSD; 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 25 of 136 
 
The above shall be treated as delays beyond the control of the BESSD and SCD for 
such Projects shall be revised as the date as on 30 days subsequent to the readiness 
of the Delivery Point and power evacuation infrastructure and/or Start Date of 
Connectivity. The decision on requisite extension on account of the above  factor 
shall be taken by the CSPDCL. 
In case of delay in commissioning of Project due to reasons beyond the reasonable 
control of the BESSD, CSPDCL may extend the SCD after examining the issue on a 
case- to-case basis. 
In case of delay in Project commissioning on account of reasons solely attributable to 
the BESSD, resulting in any liquidated damages/penalty levied on the CSPDCL, under 
the SERC / CERC / GNA Regulations, such damages/penalty shall be passed on to and 
payable by the BESSD. 
11 Early Commissioning 
The BESSD shall be permitted for full commissioning as well as part -commissioning of 
the Project even prior to the SCD. Early commissioning of the Project will be allowed 
solely at the risk and cost of the BESSD, and CSPDCL shall schedule the capacity from 
such early commissioned Project at the BESPA charges (for the Contracted Capacity), 
only in case CSPDCL agrees to purchase the capacity at an earlier date, and at the 
BESPA tariff. 
In case CSPDCL does not agree to early purchase the capacity, early part/full 
commissioning of the Project shall still be allowed and the BESSD will be free to utilize 
such capacity in the market or for sale of capacity to a third party until SCD or the da te 
of commencement of procurement of BESS capacity as notified by CSPDCL, whichever 
is earlier. However, early part/full commissioning of the Project and subsequent capacity 
procurement from the same shall be subject to the approval of CSPDCL. Such intimation 
regarding consent to procure BESS capacity from early commissioning shall be provided 
by CSPDCL within 15 days of receipt of the request being made by the BESSD, beyond 
which it would be considered as deemed refusal. In case of BESSD sales storage 
capacity to third parties, CSPDCL shall not be responsible for providing charging power. 
If the BESS capacity is not off taken by CSPDCL upon early commissioning, BESSD 
shall arrange for any augmentation of the Battery capacity to meet the capacity criteria 
mentioned at the time of SCD (i.e. dispatchable capacity on SCD date shall be100% of 
the contracted capacity) and to maintain the capacity at the end of every year as 
indicated in Clause 8.1(e). 4. of the RfS. Subject to the provisions of the BESPA, in case 
of early commissioning, if BESSD sells any capacity to a third party, the BESSD will 
have to again demonstrate 100% of Contracted Capacity (as per the Commissioning 
Procedure) to CSPDCL from SCD. 
12 Viability Gap Funding Mechanism 
12.1 In line with the sanction order issued by the Ministry of Power dated 09.06.2025 and 
subsequent amendments and clarifications issued by Ministry of Power, Government of 
India, Projects selected under this RfS will be eligible for grant of Viability Gap Fun ding 
(VGF) supported through Power System Development Fund (PSDF) by the Government 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 26 of 136 
 
for development of Battery Energy Storage Systems, and the same will be disbursed 
through the CSPDCL. 
12.2 Under this RfS, the VGF amount eligible for each Developer shall be limited to the amount 
calculated as Rs. 18,00,000/MWh (Rupees Eighteen Lakhs per MWh) . For example, 
for a Project Capacity of 125 MW/500 MWh, the VGF amount to be sanctioned for the 
corresponding Project will be Rs. 90 Crores. BESS Developer shall submit certificate for 
the capital cost incurred for the Project awarded capacity, duly certified by the Statutory 
Auditors, within six months from the COD.  
12.3 VGF will be sanctioned separately for each Project, based on the Project Capacity as 
defined in the respective BESPA. 
12.4 For each Project, disbursement of VGF will be carried out in 3 tranches, as follows: 
Milestone for Disbursement of VGF % of total VGF 
disbursed 
On Financial Closure as per the BESPA, subject 
to submission of Bank Guarantee to CSPDCL 
 
20 
On Commercial Operation Date (COD) of the 
Project 50 
Completion of 1st year from COD 30 
Total 100 
 
12.5 The VGF for each project shall be disbursed to the BESSD, once CSPDCL/ CEA certifies 
the achievement of the disbursement schedule milestone and submission of the required 
Bank Guarantee by BESSD. CSPDCL shall disburse the tranche wise VGF to BESSD 
only after receipt of the same from the Govt. of India and Submission of BG by BESSD 
as per Clause 12.6. 
12.6 Bank Guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond : Each tranche of VGF will be disbursed only 
after submission of Bank Guarantees (BG)/ Insurance Surety Bond (ISB) for the amount 
equal to the VGF amount to be disbursed to the BESSD in that tranche. These BGs/ 
ISBs are in addition to the Performance Bank Guarantee provided by the developer as 
per clause 19 of this RfS. The BGs/ ISBs for the VGF sanctioned up to COD will be 
retained by the CSPDCL for a period of 1 year starting from the COD and will be returned 
after the end of 1 year from COD, taking into account recovery of VGF, if any. No BG/ 
ISB is required against the disbursement of the last tranche of VGF post completion of 
one year of operation. 
12.7 If the BESSD fails to commission the project in the timeline provided in this BESPA, and 
project got terminated after disbursement of the quantum of VGF, CSPDCL will have full 
right to recover the total amount of VGF being disbursed till the date of termin ation of 
BESPA plus interest @ SBI-MCLR (1 Year) plus five percent, as existing on the date of 
disbursement, accrued from the date of disbursement on the disbursed amount. In case 
Project capacity is being reduced as per Clause 9.2 of the RfS, recovery of VGF amount 
shall be made on pro-rata basis corresponding to the capacity being terminated. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 27 of 136 
 
12.8 CSPDCL will have the right to recover the VGF disbursed amount through encashment 
of BG, if the BESPA gets terminated within the first 1 year after COD of the Project, on 
account of reasons solely attributable to the BESSD. The VGF amount to be recovered 
will be fixed as the amount disbursed plus interest @ SBI-MCLR (1 Year) plus 5 percent, 
as existing on the date of disbursement, accrued from the date of disbursement on the 
disbursed amount. 
12.9 If the Project is transferred or sold to a third party during the above tenure, the BG will 
be re-issued by the new entity, corresponding to the amount applicable. The sale/transfer 
of the Project shall be effective only on submission of BG by new entity. However, this 
will be subject to prior approval of sanctioning authority of Grants-in-Aid {Rule230(9)}, in 
view of the asset being acquired substantially out of Government Grants.
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 28 of 136 
 
SECTION 3. STANDARD CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
13 Obtaining RfS Documents 
Interested Bidders have to download the official copy of RfS & other documents after 
logging into the https://www.bharat-electronictender.com. The Bidder shall be eligible to 
submit/ upload the bid document only after logging into the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com (and downloading the official copy of RfS. 
14 Cost of Documents & Bid Processing Fees 
Prospective Bidders interested to participate in the bidding process are required to 
submit their Project proposals in response to this RfS document along with a non - 
refundable processing fee as mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet. A Bidder will be 
eligible to participate in the bidding process only on submission of entire financial 
amounts as per the Bid Information Sheet. Payments against Cost of RfS document and 
Bid Processing Fee shall be done only through NEFT/RTGS (electronic transfer), and 
the Bidder shall submit the transaction receipt, as part of the online bid submission. 
The bank details of NVVN are: 
i. Bank Name: ICICI Bank Limited 
ii. Branch: CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
iii. Bank Address: 9A, PHELPS BUILDING, INNER CIRCLE, NEW DELHI- 110001 
iv. IFSC Code: ICIC0000007 
v. Account No.: 000705008910 
Bids submitted without cost of the RfS  document and/or Bid Processing Fee 
and/or Bank Guarantee/Payment on Order Instrument against Earnest Money 
Deposit (EMD) (including partial submission of any one of the respective 
amounts), may be liable for rejection by NVVN. 
 
MSEs (Micro and Small Enterprises) having valid UDYAM registration as on the 
last date of bid submission only are exempted from submission of Cost of the RfS 
document, Bid Processing Fee & Earnest Money Deposit (EMD). 
15 Project Scope & Technology Selection 
Under this RfS, the BESSD shall set up the Project including the transmission network 
up to the Interconnection/Delivery Point, at its own cost and in accordance to the 
provisions of this RfS document. All approvals, permits and clearances required for 
setting up of the Project and/or transmission network upto the Delivery Point (along with 
connectivity), including those required from State Government and local bodies, shall be 
in the scope of the BESSD. The Projects to be selected under this RfS provide for 
deployment of Battery Energy Storage Technology. However, the selection of Projects 
would be technology agnostic within the above segment. 
16 Connectivity with the Grid 
Please refer Clause 7 of the RfS. 
 
17 Clearances Required from the Central/State Government and Other Local Bodies 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 29 of 136 
 
The BESSDs are required to obtain all necessary clearances and permits as required 
for setting up the Projects, including but not limited to the following: 
a) No Objection (NOC)/Environmental clearance (if applicable) for the Project. 
b) Approval for water from the concerned authority (if applicable) required for the 
Project. 
c) Any other clearances as may be legally required, in order to establish and 
operate the Project. 
d) Necessary approval(s) of CEIG/ State Electrical Inspectorate 
e) No Objection (NOC)/ Permit (if applicable) from the Local Body for the Project. 
f) Fire clearance, if applicable. 
The above clearances, as applicable for the Project, will be required to be submitted to 
CSPDCL prior to the commissioning of the Project. In case of any of the clearances 
indicated above being not applicable for the said Project, the BESSD shall submit an  
undertaking in this regard, and it shall be deemed that the BESSD has obtained/applied 
for all the necessary clearances for establishing and operating the Project. Any 
consequences contrary to the above shall be the responsibility of the BESSD. The 
BESSD shall also comply with all the laws, regulations, orders and procedures issued 
by the appropriate authority, applicable for setting up and implementing the Project. 
The BESSD shall be required to follow the applicable rules regarding project registration 
with the State Nodal Agency in line with the provisions of the applicable 
policies/regulations of the State where the Projects are being located. It shall be the 
responsibility of the BESSD to remain updated about the applicable charges payable to 
the SNA under the applicable State policies. 
Note: The BESSD should apply for all the necessary approvals, permits and clearances 
not more than 60 days from the Effective Date of the BESPA, which shall be complete 
in all respects, incorporating the clarifications/changes as required by the concerned 
authorities. The above timeline shall be adhered to, in order to examine cases where 
the BESSD faces delay in grant of the necessary approvals and permits, for a period 
substantially greater than the standard period of grant of approval by the respective 
organizations. 
17.1 In line with the O.M. issued by the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, vide 
No. 7/10/2021 -PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023 and subsequent amendments and 
clarifications thereto, the Bidder shall meet the following criteria for its bid to be 
considered for evaluation under the RfS: 
a. Any Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to 
bid in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority (as 
defined in the OM as referred above). 
b. Any Bidder (including an Indian Bidder) who has a Specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with 
India will be eligible to participate in this RfS only if the Bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority under the referred OM. 
c. “Bidder” in this reference, means any person or firm or company, including any 
member of a consortium, every artificial juridical person not falling in any of the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 30 of 136 
 
descriptions of bidders stated hereinbefore, including any agency branch or office 
controlled by such person, participating in this tender. 
d. “Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India” for the purpose of this 
clause, means: 
i. An entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or 
ii. A subsidiary of an entity incorporated, established or registered in such a 
country; or 
iii. An entity substantially controlled through entities incorporated, established 
or registered in such a country; or 
iv. An entity whose beneficial owner is situated in such a country; or 
v. An Indian (or other) agent of such an entity; or 
vi. A natural person who is a citizen of such a country; or 
vii. A consortium where any member of the consortium falls under any of the 
above. 
e. “Beneficial owner” for the purposes of Clause 17.1.d.iv. above will be as defined in 
the referred OM, including subsequent amendments and clarifications thereto. 
f. In support of the above, the Bidder shall be required to submit necessary 
Undertaking, as per Format 7.8/7.8A of the RfS. 
g. Other provisions of the referred OM dated 23.02.2023, except Sl. 17 of the OM, will 
also be applicable for this tender. Any interpretation of the above clauses will be 
made in line with the referred OM, including subsequent amendments and 
clarifications thereto. 
18 Bank Guarantee/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) against Earnest Money 
Deposit (EMD) 
18.1 Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) of INR 8,80,000/MW (Rupees Eight Lakh Eighty 
Thousand only per MW) - per Project in the form of Bank Guarantee according to 
Format 7.3A and valid for 12 months from the last date of bid submission, shall be 
submitted by the Bidd er along with their bid, failing which the bid shall be summarily 
rejected. The Bank Guarantees towards EMD have to be issued in the name of the 
Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Bidding Consortium. In the event of encashment of 
EMD, the encashed amount shall include all applicable taxes. 
18.2 The Bidder shall furnish the Bank Guarantees towards EMD from any of the Scheduled 
Commercial Banks as listed on the website of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and 
amended as on the date of issuance of bank guarantee. Bank Guarantee issued by 
foreign branch of a Scheduled Commercial Bank is to be endorsed by the Indian branch 
of the same bank or State Bank of India (SBI). 
The EMD shall be valid as per the timelines stipulated above. However, shortfall in the 
EMD validity, if any, up to a period of seven (7) days shall be acceptable. Further, an 
additional shortfall only in the following cases shall be acceptable: If the bid der has 
submitted the EMD with validity as per original bid submission date or as per any 
revised submission date, and if the deadline for submission of bids has been extended 
further, the Bid Guarantee shall be acceptable provided, the EMD is valid for more than
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 31 of 136 
 
two months from the actual date of bid submission and the Bidder submits the EMD 
extension for the requisite period within seven days from the date of actual bid 
submission, if required. 
While issuing the physical BGs, the Bidder’s Bank shall also send electronic message 
through secure SFMS (in case of BGs issued from within India) or SWIFT (in case of 
BGs issued from outside India) to NVVN’s Beneficiary Bank as per the details given in 
Format 7.14. 
18.3 NVVN has agreed to accept the EMD in the form of an unconditional and irrevocable 
Bank Guarantee instead of the cash deposit with the clear position intimated to the 
bidder that the EMD Bank Guarantee shall be encashable for being appropriated by the 
NVVN in terms of the guarantee as in the case of appropriation of the cash deposit lying 
with the NVVN. 
18.4 Forfeiture of EMD: 
The BG towards EMD shall be encashed by the NVVN in following cases: 
a. If the bidder withdraws or varies the bid after due date and time of bid submission and 
during the validity of bid; 
b. In case, CSPDCL offers to execute the BESPA with the Selected Bidder and if the 
Selected Bidder does not submit the requisite documents as per Clause 22 of the RfS 
or does not execute the BESPA within the stipulated time period; 
c. If after issuance of LoA, it is found that the documents furnished by the bidders as 
part of response to RfS are misleading or misrepresented in any way; 
d. If the bidder fails to furnish required PBG/POI in accordance with Clause 19 of the 
RfS. 
18.5 Payment on Order Instrument (POI): As an alternative to submission of EMD as 
above, the Bidder also has an option to submit a letter of undertaking issued by either 
of the following three organizations, viz. (i) Indian Renewable Development agency 
Limited (IREDA) or (ii) Power Finance Corpo ration Limited or (iii) REC Limited. This 
Letter of Undertaking shall be issued as “Payment on Order Instrument” (POI), wherein 
the POI issuing organization undertakes to pay in all scenarios under which the EMD 
would be liable to be encashed by the NVVN within the provisions of RfS/BESPA. This 
instrument would have to be furnished as per Format 7.3 D of the RfS, within the 
timelines as per Clause 18.1 above, for the amount and validity period as per those 
Clause 18.1 above. 
The term “Bank Guarantee (BG) towards/ against EMD” occurring in the RfS shall be 
read as “Bank Guarantee (BG)/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) towards/ against 
EMD”. 
18.6 Insurance Surety Bond for Bid Security 
The Bid Security shall, at the Bidder's option, be in the form of an Insurance Surety 
Bond from an Insurer as per guidelines issued by Insurance Regulatory and 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 32 of 136 
 
Development Authority of India (IRDAI). The format of the Insurance Surety Bond shall 
be in accordance with the form of Insurance Surety Bond towards bid security included 
in the RFS as per Format 3E. 
Insurance Surety Bond against Bid Security issued by an Indian Insurance company 
outside India needs to bear stamp duty of appropriate value applicable to the place 
where Insurance Surety Bond is to be submitted. The Insurance Surety Bond may be 
got adjudicated by the NVVN from Collector of Stamps, within 3 months of arrival of 
Insurance Surety Bond in India. Expenses incurred in this regard shall be borne by 
NVVN. 
 
19 Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG)/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) 
19.1 Bidders selected by the NVVN based on this RfS shall submit -Performance Bank 
Guarantee (PBG) for a value @ INR 22,00,000/MW (Rupees Twenty Two Lakh only 
per MW), to the CSPDCL, prior to signing of BESPA. It may be noted that successful 
Bidders shall submit the PBG according to Format 7.3B with a validity period upto (& 
including) the date as on 9 months after the Scheduled Commissioning Date of the 
Project. Upon receipt and successful verification of the total PBG in the acceptable 
format by CSPDCL, along with communication from CSPDCL to NVVN confirming 
acceptance of the PBG submitted by the successful bidder, and upon receipt of the 
success charge by NVVN from the successful bidder, the BG submitted towards EMD 
shall be returned by NVVN to the successful bidder. 
19.2 Performance Bank Guarantees (PBGs) shall be submitted as per the following note: 
Note: The PBGs are required to be submitted in the name of the entity signing the 
BESPA. In case of BESPA being eventually signed with the SPV incorporated/utilized 
by the successful bidder, the PBG may be submitted in the name of the successful 
bidder within th e above prescribed deadline, if the bidder chooses to do so, and the 
same shall be replaced by the PBG issued in the name of the SPV, prior to signing of 
BESPA. 
19.3 The BESSD shall furnish the PBG from any of the Scheduled Commercial Banks as 
listed on the website of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and amended as on the date of 
issuance of bank guarantee. Bank Guarantee issued by foreign branch of a Scheduled 
Commercial Bank is to be endorsed by the Indian branch of the same bank or State 
Bank of India (SBI). In case of the Project being implemented through an SPV 
incorporated by the successful bidder, the PBG shall be furnished in the name of the 
SPV, except for the case as indicated in Clause 39.3 of the RfS. 
19.4 The format of the Bank Guarantees prescribed in the Format 7.3 A (EMD) and 7.3 B 
(PBG) shall be strictly adhered to and any deviation from the above Formats shall result 
in rejection of the EMD/ PBG and consequently, the bid. In case of deviations in the 
formats of the Bank Guarantees, the corresponding BESPA shall not be signed. 
19.5 CSPDCL has agreed to accept the PBG in the form of an unconditional and irrevocable 
Bank Guarantee instead of the cash deposit with the clear position intimated to the 
bidder that the PBG shall be encashable for being appropriated by the CSPDCL in 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 33 of 136 
 
terms of the guarantee as in the case of appropriation of the cash deposit lying with 
CSPDCL. 
19.6 The selected Bidder for the Project selected based on this RfS is required to sign 
BESPA with CSPDCL within the timeline as stipulated in Clause 22 of the RfS. In case, 
CSPDCL offers to execute the BESPA with the Selected Bidder and if the Selected 
Bidder does not submit the requisite documents as per Clause 22 of the RfS, or does 
not execute the BESPA within the stipulated time period, then the EMD shall be 
encashed by NVVN on written instructions from CSPDCL and the amount will 
transferred to CSPDCL  afte r deduction of success charge or Bank Guarantee 
equivalent to the amount of the EMD shall be encashed by CSPDCL (i.e. PBG) as 
liquidated damages not amounting to penalty, the selected Project shall stand cancelled 
and the selected Bidder expressly waives o ff its rights and objections, if any, in that 
respect.  
19.7 The Bank Guarantees have to be executed on non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate 
value as per Stamp Act relevant to the place of execution. 
19.8 All expenditure towards execution of Bank Guarantees such as stamp duty etc. shall 
be borne by the Bidders/BESSDs. Any Bank Guarantee or amendment to be submitted 
as part of the bidding process / contract execution, shall be accepted only when the BG 
issuance message is transmitted by the issuing bank through SFMS (insert SFMS 
details of the CSPDCL). 
19.9 In case of Bank Guarantees issued by foreign branch of a Scheduled Commercial Bank, 
the same is to be endorsed by the Indian branch of the same bank or SBI, and the 
endorsing bank would be required to provide the SFMS confirmation. 
19.10 After the bidding process is over, NVVN shall release the Bank Guarantees towards 
EMD of the unsuccessful Bidders within 15 days after the completion of e -Reverse 
Auction. The PBG shall be returned to the BESSD within 9 months from the COD of the 
Project, after taking into account any liquidated damages due to delays in 
commissioning as per Clause 9 and 10 of the RfS. 
20 Success Charges 
20.1 Success Charges: The Selected Bidder shall have to pay INR 1,00,000/MW (Rupees 
One Lakh/MW) + 18% GST to NVVN towards administrative overheads, coordination 
with State Authorities, State Utilities and others expenses. The payment has to be made 
by the BESSD in the form of DD/ Pay Order/ NEFT/ RTGS within 30 days of issuance 
of LoA by CSPDCL. Any delay in depositing the said amount to the NVVN as mentioned 
above within the stipulated time shall attract late payment charges @18% per 
annum+18% GST, levied on per day basis, on the total Success Charges, till (and 
including) the date of payment of Success Charges, which shall not be later than the 
date of signing of BESPA. BESPA shall only be signed after deposit of the Success 
Charges to the NVVN and written confirmation of the same from NVVN to CSPDCL. In 
case of delay in making full payment of above delay charges, the amount paid, if any 
until the above deadline, along with interest, shall be first reduced from the total amount 
due towards the delay charges and interest amount (i.e. rate of interest as stated 
above). Further, balance amount to be paid shall attract Interest rate @ one -year SBI 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 34 of 136 
 
MCLR rate /annum + 5% (five percent) on pro-rata basis. 
20.2 Not Used 
 
21 Integrity Pact (IP) 
Bidders are required to unconditionally accept all the conditions of the "Integrity 
Pact (IP)" as per Attachment titled Integrity Pact to the Bidding Documents 
which has been pre-signed by the NVVN. 
Bidders shall certify their compliance on " Integrity Pact " by accepting the 
following General Technical Evaluation (GTE) of the Tender at e-Tender Portal: 
“Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bidding 
Document?” 
On Bidder’s acceptance to the above GTE condition, Bidder confirms to have 
read, understood and unconditionally accept & commit to all the contents, terms, 
conditions and undertakings mentioned in the Integrity Pact which has been pre- 
signed by the NVVN and enclosed with the Bidding Documents. Where the Joint 
Venture(s) / Consortium are permitted to participate in the bid pursuant to ITB 
Clause 8.1.2(a), acceptance of above GTE by bidder shall mean that all the JV 
Partner(s)/ Consortium members have read, understood and unconditionally 
accept & commit to all the contents, terms, conditions and undertakings 
mentioned in the Integrity Pact which has been pre -signed by the NVVN and 
enclosed with the Bidding Documents. 
On Acceptance of the above GTE, Integrity Pact shall be considered signed by 
the Bidder / JV Partner(s)/ Consortium members and the same shall come into 
force from the date of submission of bid. 
It may also be noted that subsequent to NVVN’s evaluation of Bids, 
resulting into award of Contract to a particular Bidder, the Integrity Pact 
so submitted shall form an integral part of the Contract. 
 
21 (A) Independent External Monitors (IEM)s 
In respect of this package, the Independent External Monitors (IEMs) would be 
monitoring the bidding process and execution of Contract to oversee 
implementation and effectiveness of the Integrity Pact Program. 
This panel is authorized to examine / consider all references made to it under 
this tender. The bidder(s), in case of any dispute(s) / complaint(s) pertaining to 
this package may raise the issue either with the designated 'Nodal Officer' in 
NVVN or directl y with the IEMs address available at NVVN website 
www.nvvn.co.in. 
The Independent External Monitors (IEMs) has the right to access without 
restriction to all Project documentations of the CSPDCL including that provided 
by the Contractor. The Contractor will also grant the IEMs, upon his request and 
demonstration of a val id interest, unrestricted and unconditional access to his 
Project Documentations. The same is applicable to Subcontractors. The IEMs 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 35 of 136 
 
are under contractual obligation to treat the information and documents of the 
Bidder/ Contractor/ Sub -Contractors/ JV partners/ Consortium member with 
confidentiality. 
The Nodal Officer for necessary coordination with Independent External 
Monitors shall be as under: 
 
(i)) Concerned Group 
Head in C&M 
: if the issue pertains to 
awarding of Contract by C&M 
(ii) Concerned Head of 
Department 
: if the issue pertains to other 
departments 
(iii) Concerned Head of of 
Department 
: if the issue pertains to 
post- award execution of Contract 
 
22 Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) 
22.1 CSPDCL shall enter into Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) with 
Bidder selected based on this RfS. A copy of standard BESPA to be executed between 
CSPDCL and the BESSD is available on https://www.bharat-electronictender.com (and 
also in the NVVN’s website. The BESPA will be signed within 30 days of issuance of 
LoAs, if not extended by CSPDCL. BESPA will be executed between CSPDCL and 
selected bidder or its SPV for the Project. 
22.2 The BESSD shall submit a detailed completion Schedule for the Project within 30 days 
from BESPA effective date. Broad details to be captured in the Schedule are the land 
procurement, grid connectivity order, supply and erection status of various Project 
components; financial arrangement/ tie up etc. The BESSD shall also submit the 
progress report to CSPDCL in a format acceptable to CSPDCL and shall contain 
percentage completion achieved compared with the planned percentage completion for 
each activity on monthly basis, and any such other information as and when required 
by CSPDCL. In addition to the above, subsequent to signing of BESPA, the BESSD 
shall be required to submit the monthly Project status on 5th day of every calendar 
month as per Annexure-D of the RfS or any format as provided subsequent to signing 
of BESPA. 
22.3 Note: BESPA will be executed between CSPDCL and the BESSD for the total Project 
Capacity awarded to the Bidder. Delays in meeting the project execution timeline on 
account of changes in the project parameters from the data as submitted in the 
Covering Letter (Format 7.1), shall be at the risk and cost of the Successful Bidder. 
22.4 In case any change in project location by the BESSD during the project construction 
period results in any modification in the connectivity/power evacuation to be taken by 
Buying Entity for charging power, any additional charges/ penalties payable by Buying 
Entity in this regard shall be borne by the BESSD, unless the change is on account of 
a Force Majeure event. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 36 of 136 
 
22.5 The BESPA shall be valid for a period of 15 years from the SCD or date of full 
commissioning of the Project, whichever is later. Any extension of the BESPA period 
beyond the term of the BESPA shall be through mutual agreement between the BESSD 
and CSPDCL. BESPA shall be extended for a period upto 5 years (or as mutually 
agreed) at tariff not more than 60% of the BESPA tariff and mutually agreed between 
CSPDCL and BESSD, provided that RtE remaining more than 85%, subject to approval 
of CSERC. 
The extension of BESPA beyond the initial 15 years would be for the part of Contracted 
Capacity as demonstrated after the 15 -year period. e.g: If the Minimum Dispatchable 
Capacity demonstrated after the 15 -year period is 450 MWh at 125 MW, then the 
extension of BESPA will be for 90% of the initial Contracted Capacity. A maintenance 
period upto 90 days will be allowed for Battery replacement / other maintenance 
activities, after the 15-year period. 
22.6 The Performance Bank Guarantee to CSPDCL as per Clause 19 above and Success 
Charges to NVVN as per Clause 20 above, shall be submitted by the BESSD prior to 
signing of BESPA. Before signing of BESPA between CSPDCL and the BESSDs, the 
CSPDCL will verify the  shareholding of the Project Company along with a copy of 
complete documentary evidence or certificate from statutory auditor. If at this stage it is 
found that the documents furnished by the BESSDs are false / misleading or 
misrepresented in any way, then the provisions contained in this RfS will be applicable. 
22.7 Successful bidders will have to submit the required documents to CSPDCL within 15 
days from the issuance of LoA. In case of delay in submission of documents beyond 
the 15 days as mentioned above, CSPDCL shall not be liable for delay in verification of 
documents and subsequent delay in signing of BESPA. Effective Date of the BESPA 
shall be the date as on 30 days from the date of issue of LoA, or the date of signing of 
BESPA, whichever is later (for example, if the date of LoA is 07.02.2026, the Effective 
Date will be 06.03.2026 or date of signing of BESPA, whichever is later). Subsequent 
to expiry of the 30 -day period after the issuance of LoA, in case the CSPDCL intimates 
to the Successful Bidder, a particular date as the date for signing of BESPA, the 
specified date shall become the Effective Date of the BESPA, irrespective of the date 
of signing of BESPA. 
22.8 Not Used 
22.9 The BESSD will be free to replenish the battery capacity from time to time during the 
Term of the BESPA at its cost and expense to meet the performance criteria. However, 
CSPDCL will be obligated to off -take capacity only within the performance range as 
specified in the BESPA and at the charges applicable as per the existing agreements. 
Any excess supply will be dealt as per provisions of the BESPA. 
23 Financial Closure or Project Financing Arrangements 
23.1 The Projects shall achieve Financial Closure within the date as on 06 months after the 
Effective Date of the BESPA (for e.g. if Effective Date is 06.03.2026, the above deadline 
will be 05.09.2026). 
23.2 At the stage of financial closure, the BESSDs shall report 100% tie -up of Financing 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 37 of 136 
 
Arrangements for the Projects. In this regard, the BESSD shall submit a certificate/ 
necessary documents from all financing agencies regarding the tie -up of 100% of the 
funds indicated for the Project, including arrangements of funds in the form of Equity. 
23.3 Checklist of documents to be submitted at this stage is provided at Annexure -B of the 
RfS. 
23.4 In case of default in achieving above condition as may be applicable within the 
stipulated time, CSPDCL shall be entitled to encash PBG and shall remove the Project 
from the list of the selected Projects, unless the delay is on account of factors not owing 
to any action or inaction on the part of the BESSD, or caused due to a Force Majeure 
as per BESPA. An extension can however be considered, on the sole request of 
BESSD, on advance payment of extension charges of INR 1,000/ - per day per MW. 
This extension will not have an impact on the obligation of BESSD to achieve 
commissioning by the SCD of the Project. Subsequent to the completion of deadline for 
achieving financial closure, CSPDCL shall issue notices to the BESSD not meeting the 
requirements of Financial Closure as per the RfS deadlines. The notice shall provide a 
period of 7 business days to the respective BESSDs to either furnish the necessary 
documents or make the above -mentioned payment of Rs. 1,000/MW/day. In case of 
non-submission of either-the requisite documents or the necessary amount upon expiry 
of the above-mentioned notice period of 7 days-the CSPDCL shall encash the PBG of 
the BESSD and terminate the BESPA for the Project. The amount of Rs. 1,000/MW/day 
shall be paid by the BESSDs in advance prior to the commencement of the said delay 
period and shall be calculated based on the period of delay as estimated by the BESSD. 
In case of the BESSD meeting the requirements of Financial Closure before the last 
date of such proposed delay period, the r emaining amount deposited by the BESSD 
shall be returned by the CSPDCL. Interest on account of delay in deposition of the 
above-mentioned charges or on any subsequent extension sought, shall be levied @ 
one-year SBI MCLR rate /annum + 5% (five percent) on pro-rata basis. Any extension 
charges paid so, shall be returned to the BESSD without any interest on achievement 
of successful commissioning within the SCD, on pro -rata basis, based on the project 
capacity commissioned as on SCD. 
23.5 The BESSD will have to submit the required documents to the CSPDCL at least 14 
days prior to the scheduled Financial Closure date. In case of delay in submission of 
documents mentioned above, CSPDCL shall not be liable for delay in verification of 
documents and subsequent delay in Financial Closure. 
24 Land Arrangements for the Project 
24.1 Land identification and possession shall be in line with Clause 6 of the RfS, and CSPDCL 
shall facilitate in grant of land to the BESSD. 
24.2 The above land area will be given to the BESSD for Right of Use (ROU) within 60 days 
from Effective Date of the BESPA. In case of any delay in signing of ROU agreement of 
land to the BESSD, the Financial Closure and Commissioning milestones will be suitably 
extended, provided that the delay is not due to any action/ inaction on part of the BESSD. 
24.3 The BESSD shall submit documents/Lease Agreements to establish possession/right to 
use for at least 90% of the required land area at the time of financial closure in the name 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 38 of 136 
 
of the BESSD for a period not less than the complete term of the BESPA. 
24.4 With respect to signing of ROU agreement for the required land to set up BESS by the 
BESSD, commissioning of the Project will not be allowed until submission of land 
agreement by the BESSD in terms of the Clauses 6 & 7 of the RfS except when the delay 
in signing of ROU is on account of CSPDCL. The above land area will be given to the 
BESSD for Right of Use (ROU) within 60 days from Effective Date of the BESPA. In case 
of any delay in signing of ROU agreement of land to the BESSD, the Financial Closure 
and Commissioning milestones will be suitably extended provided that the delay is not 
due to any action/ inaction on part of the BESSD. The RoU agreement shall be co -
terminus and co-extensible with the BESPA period. 
24.5 However, in case of delays in signing of ROU by the BESSD on account of Government 
/ CSPDCL delay (including but not limited to delay in land use pattern change, and/or 
relaxation under respective State land ceiling Act, and/or land lease permission from 
State Government/Authorities) or delay caused due to a Force Majeure as per BESPA, 
SCD shall be suitably extended. 
24.6 The BESSD is free to setup the project in self -identified land owned by the BESSD or 
through suitable Right of Use agreement. The RoU agreement shall have clear RoU 
period for not less than 20 years from the effective date of BESPA and shall be extended 
prior to extension of BESPA period for 5 years. The performance parameters shall be as 
specified in this RfS at the interconnecting point at ………………. SubStation. 
25 Commercial Operation Date (COD) 
In case of part commissioning, Commercial Operation Date (COD) will be declared only 
for that part of Project Capacity. COD shall be the next day after the date of 
commissioning of the Project, as indicated on the Commissioning Certificate, upon 
successful commissioning of the full capacity of the Project or the last part capacity of 
the Project as the case may be, as declared in line with the commissioning procedure 
as provided in the BESPA. Similarly, for each part commissioning, COD will be the next 
day after actual date of commissioning of the respective part capacity. 
The BESSD shall obtain necessary charging and safety clearances from the concerned 
authorities (STU/ SLDC/ CEIG/ CEA/ State Electrical Inspectorate etc.) prior to 
commissioning of the Project. The 15 -year tenure of BESPA shall be as per the 
provisions of BESPA. Any capacity being offered to the grid before COD shall not be at 
the cost of CSPDCL under this scheme and developers will be free to make short-term 
sale to any organization or individual with first right of refusal with CSPDCL. 
Declaration of COD will be governed by applicable Grid Code provisions, and in case of 
discrepancy between the procedure given in the RfS and that stipulated in the Grid 
Code, the provisions of Grid Code will prevail. 
26 Modifications in Controlling Shareholding 
26.1 The BESSD shall indicate its shareholding in the company  indicating the controlling 
shareholding before signing of BESPA with CSPDCL. 
26.2 No change in controlling shareholding of the Bidding Company or Bidding Consortium 
shall be permitted from the date of submission of response to RfS till the execution of 
the BESPA. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 39 of 136 
 
Following shall not be considered as change in shareholding as mentioned above: 
a. Infusion of Fresh equity capital amongst the existing shareholders/promoters at the 
time of Bid Submission to meet equity requirements. 
b. Conversion of CCDs, CCPs etc. already issued to existing shareholders. 
c. Death, marriage, Divorce, minor attaining major (any legal heir who was minor at 
the time of signing of BESPA), insolvent, insane of existing shareholders. 
d. Transfer of shares within the members of Immediate Promoter Group only. 
e. Transfer of shares to IEPF. 
f. Issue of Bonus Shares. 
 
26.3 In case of Project being executed through SPV, the Successful Bidder, if being a single 
company, shall ensure that its shareholding in the SPV/ Project Company executing the 
BESPA, shall not fall below 51% at any time prior to COD of the Project. In the ev ent 
the successful Bidder is a consortium, then the combined shareholding of the 
consortium members in the SPV/ Project Company executing the BESPA, shall not fall 
below 51% at any time prior to COD. However, in case the Project is being set up by a 
listed Company, this condition will not be applicable. 
26.4 In case of the selected Bidder itself executing the BESPA, it shall ensure that controlling 
shareholding of the Bidding Company remains unchanged until the COD. However, in 
case the Project is being set up by a listed Company, this condition will not be 
applicable. 
26.5 In case of companies having multiple promoters (but none of the shareholders having 
more than 50% of voting rights and paid up share capital), it shall be considered as a 
company under joint control. In such cases, the shareholding pattern in the company 
as submitted at the time of bidding, shall be maintained upto the COD. 
26.6 Any change in the shareholding after COD can be undertaken under intimation to the 
CSPDCL. 
26.7 In the event of Change in Shareholding/ Substitution of Promoters triggered by the 
Financial Institutions leading to signing of fresh BESPA with a new entity, an amount of 
INR 10 Lakh per Project +18% GST per Transaction as Facilitation Fee (non - 
refundable) shall be deposited by the BESSD to CSPDCL. 
27 Instructions to Bidders for Structuring of Bid Proposals in Response to RfS 
The bidder including its Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company shall 
submit single response to RfS. Detailed Instructions to be followed by the bidders for 
online submission of response to RfS are stated at Annexure – C. Submission of b id 
proposals by Bidders in response to RfS shall be in the manner described below: 
a. Covering Letter as per Format 7.1. 
b. In case of a Bidding Consortium, a Power of Attorney in favour of the Lead Member 
issued by the other Members of the Consortium shall be provided in original as per 
format attached hereto as Format 7.2. 
In the event any Member of the Bidding Consortium (other than Lead Member) is a 
foreign entity, it may submit Board Resolutions in place of Power of Attorney for the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 40 of 136 
 
purpose of fulfilling the requirements under this clause. Provided that such Board 
Resolutions shall be supported by an unqualified opinion issued by the legal counsel of 
such foreign entity stating that the Board Resolutions are in compliance with the 
applicable laws of the respective jurisdictions of the issuing Company and the 
authorizations granted therein are true and valid. 
c. Bank Guarantee/ Payment on Order Instrument (POI) against Earnest Money Deposit 
(EMD) as per Format 7.3 A/7.3 D. 
d. Board Resolutions, as per prescribed formats enclosed as per Format 7.4 duly certified 
by the Company Secretary or the Director of the relevant Bidder, as applicable to the 
Bidder and mentioned hereunder: 
i. Board Resolution from the Bidding Company or the Lead Member of the Consortium, 
as the case may be, in favour of the person signing the response to RfS and in the 
event of selection of the Projects and to sign the BESPA with the CSPDCL. Board 
Resolution from each of the Consortium Members in favour of the person signing 
Consortium Agreement. 
ii. Board Resolution from the Bidding Company committing 100% (One Hundred 
Percent) of the equity requirement for the Project/ Board Resolutions from each of 
the Consortium Members together in aggregate committing to 100% (One Hundred 
Percent) of equity requirement for the Project (in case of Bidding Consortium); and 
iii. Board Resolutions from each of the Consortium Members and Lead member 
contributing such additional amount over and above the percentage limit (specified 
for the Lead Member and other member in the Consortium Agreement) to the extent 
becoming necessary towa rds the total equity share in the Project Company, 
obligatory on the part of the Consortium pursuant to the terms and conditions in the 
Consortium Agreement. 
e. In case of a Consortium, the Consortium Agreement between the Members in the 
Consortium as per Format 7.5 along with Board resolution from each Member of the 
Consortium for participating in Consortium. 
f. Format for Financial Requirements as per Format 7.6 along with the certificate from 
Statutory Auditors showing details of computation of the financial credentials of the 
Bidder. 
g. Undertaking as per Format 7.7. 
h. A disclosure statement as per Format 7.8/7.8A regarding participation of any related 
companies in the bidding process. 
i. Format for Technical Criteria as per Format 7.9 (to be filled out separately for each 
Project). 
j. Declaration by the Bidding Company / Lead Member of Bidding Consortium for the 
Proposed Technology Tie Up as per Format 7.10 (to be filled out separately for each 
Project). 
k. Integrity Pact between the NVVN and the Bidding Company as per Format 7.11. (to be 
modified/removed based on the procedure of the NVVN) 
l. Attachments 
i. Memorandum of Association, Article of Association needs to be attached along with 
the bid. The bidder should also highlight the relevant provision which highlights the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 41 of 136 
 
objects relating to Power/ Energy/ Renewable Energy/ Standalone Battery Energy 
Storage System development. 
⮚ In case, there is no mention of the above provisions in the MoA/ AoA of the 
bidding company, the same has to be amended and submitted prior to signing 
of BESPA, if the bidder is selected as Successful bidder. 
⮚ If the selected bidder wishes to execute the project through a Special Purpose 
Vehicle (SPV), the MoA/ AoA of the SPV highlighting the relevant provision which 
highlights the objects relating to Power/ Energy/ Renewable Energy/ Solar Power 
plant development has to be submitted prior to signing of BESPA. 
ii. Certificate of Incorporation of Bidding Company/ all member companies of Bidding 
Consortium. In case of AIF, registration certificate issued by SEBI would be 
required. 
iii. A certificate of shareholding of the bidding company, its Parent and Ultimate Parent 
(if any) duly certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant/ Company Secretary as 
on a date within 30 days prior to the last date of bid submission. NVVN reserves 
the rig ht to seek additional information relating to shareholding in promoter 
companies, their parents/ ultimate parents and other group companies to satisfy 
themselves that RfS conditions have been complied with and the bidder will ensure 
submission of the same within the required time lines. 
iv. Certified copies of annual audited accounts for the last financial year, i.e. FY 2023- 
24/2022-23, or provisional audited accounts duly certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant (as applicable), along with certified copies of Balance Sheet, Profit & 
Loss Account, Schedules and Cash Flow Statement supported with bank 
statements as on the date at least 7 days prior to the due date of bid submission 
(if applicable), shall be required to be submitted. 
v. Details of all types of securities/instruments which are pending conversion into 
equity whether optionally or mandatorily. 
 
m. Covering letter of the Financial bid as per Format - 7.12. 
n. Break-up of the Preliminary Estimate of Cost of Project as per Format 7.13 (separately 
for each Project). 
28 Important Notes and Instructions to Bidders 
28.1 Wherever information has been sought in specified formats, the Bidders shall fill in the 
details as per the prescribed formats and shall refrain from any deviations and referring 
to any other document for providing any information required in the prescribed format. 
28.2 The Bidders shall be shortlisted based on the declarations made by them in relevant 
schedules of RfS. The documents submitted online will be verified before signing of 
BESPA in terms of Clause 22 of the RfS. 
28.3 If the Bidder/Member in a Bidding Consortium conceals any material information or 
makes a wrong statement or misrepresents facts or makes a misleading statement in 
its response to RfS, in any manner whatsoever, NVVN reserves the right to reject such 
response to RfS and/or cancel the Letter of Award, if issued, and the Bank 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 42 of 136 
 
Guarantee/POI provided up to that stage shall be encashed. Bidder shall be solely 
responsible for disqualification based on their declaration in the submission of response 
to RfS. 
28.4 If the event specified at 28.3 is discovered after the Effective Date of BESPA, 
consequences specified in BESPA shall apply. 
28.5 Response submitted by the Bidder shall become the property of the NVVN and NVVN 
shall have no obligation to return the same to the Bidder. However, the EMDs submitted 
by unsuccessful Bidders shall be returned as specified in Clause 19 of the RfS. 
28.6 All documents of the response to RfS (including RfS and subsequent Amendments/ 
Clarifications/ Addenda and BESPA) submitted online must be digitally signed by the 
person authorized by the Board as per Format 7.4. 
28.7 The response to RfS shall be submitted as mentioned in Clause 27 of the RfS. No 
change or supplemental information to a response to RfS will be accepted after the 
scheduled date and time of submission of response to RfS. However, NVVN reserves 
the right to seek additional information from the Bidders, if found necessary, during the 
course of evaluation of the response to RfS. 
28.8 Bidder to familiarize themselves with Bharat ETS portal. 
28.9 All the information should be submitted in English language only. In case of foreign 
bidders having documents in other than English language, then the documents shall be 
translated in English language by certified translator and submitted. 
28.10 Bidders shall mention the name of the contact person and complete address and 
contact details of the Bidder in the covering letter. 
28.11 Response to RfS that are incomplete, which do not substantially meet the requirements 
prescribed in this RfS, will be liable for rejection by NVVN. 
28.12 Response to RfS not submitted in the specified formats will be liable for rejection by the 
NVVN. 
28.13 Bidders delaying in submission of additional information or clarifications sought will be 
liable for rejection. 
28.14 Non-submission and/ or submission of incomplete data/ information required under the 
provisions of RfS shall not be construed as waiver on the part of the NVVN of the 
obligation of the Bidder to furnish the said data/ information unless the waiver is in 
writing. 
28.15 The Chhattisgarh State Electricity Regulatory Commission shall be the appropriate 
commission to exercise the regulatory and adjudicatory jurisdiction in regard to matters 
between BESSD and CSPDCL. Subject to the above, only Chhattisgarh High Court, 
Raipur shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all matters pertaining to this RfS and 
CSPDCL. 
28.16 All the financial transactions to be made with the NVVN or CSPDCL including 
consultancy fee (with NVVN), delay charges (with CSPDCL except charges for delay in 
Financial Closure), and any additional charges (if required), shall attract GST at 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 43 of 136 
 
prevalent rates (current rate being 18%) on each transaction, irrespective of the same 
being mentioned in the RfS/BESPA. 
29 Non-Responsive Bid 
The electronic response to RfS submitted by the bidder along with the documents 
submitted online to the NVVN shall be scrutinized to establish “Responsiveness of the 
bid”. Each bidder’s response to RfS shall be checked for compliance with the submission 
requirements set forth in this RfS. 
Any of the following conditions shall cause the Bid to be “Non-responsive”: 
(a) Non-submission of the requisite Cost of RfS and/ or Processing Fee as mentioned 
in the Bid Information Sheet. 
(b) Response to RfS not received by the due date and time of bid submission. 
(c) Non-submission of correct, valid and operative Pass-Phrases for both Technical 
and Financial Bid (Price Bid) Parts after the deadline of Bid Submission, and 
before the commencement of the Online Tender Opening Event (TOE) of 
Technical Bid. 
(d) Any indication of tariff in any part of response to the RfS, other than in the financial 
bid. 
(e) Data filled in the Electronic Form of Financial Bid (Second Envelope), not in line with 
the instructions mentioned in the same electronic form. 
(f) Except for the scenario as per Clause 5.1 above, in case it is found that the Bidding 
Company including Ultimate Parent Company/ Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Group 
Companies have submitted more than one response to this RfS, then all these bids 
submitted shall be treated as non-responsive and rejected. 
(g) Non-submission or partial submission of EMD in acceptable form along with 
response to RfS. 
 
In any of the above cases, the bid shall not be considered for bid opening and evaluation 
process. 
30 Method of Submission of Response to RfS by the Bidder 
30.1 The bidder has to submit original of following documents offline: 
a. Bank Guarantee/ Payment on Order Instrument towards EMD as mentioned in the Bid 
Information Sheet (as per Format 7.3A/ 7.3D). One EMD may be submitted for the 
cumulative capacity quoted by the bidder, or individual EMDs may be submitted for 
each Project. 
b. (Any documentation required as part of submission of bid on the bidding portal decided 
by the NVVN). 
 
No documents will be accepted in person, on or before the date of bid submission. 
Bank Guarantee/POI against EMD needs to be submitted in both online and offline 
modes. The bidders will be required to submit the bank guarantee, either in person or 
through post, at the office of NVVN until the date as on 2 working days after the closing 
date of bid submission. The 2 -day duration will be counted from the date of bid 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 44 of 136 
 
submission. 
For e.g., if the bid submission deadline is 18:00 hrs on 22.10.2025, the above deadline 
will expire at 18:00 hrs on 24.10.2025. In case of the above deadline being a holiday, the 
next working day in NVVN will be the deadline for submission of Bank Guarantees. 
Note: In all cases, the Bank Guarantee/POI against EMD (if applicable), shall be issued 
on or before the bid submission deadline. These instruments issued after the expiry of 
the deadline will be summarily rejected. 
The bidding envelope shall contain the following sticker: 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of  MW/ MWh Standalone Battery Energy Storage 
Systems in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-based Global Competitive 
Bidding Procurement under tariff-based global competitive bidding Request 
for Selection (RFS) document for setting up of 125 MW/500 MWh STU 
connected 
standalone Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the state of 
Chhattisgarh with Viability Gap Funding (VGF) Support 
Cumulative Capacity of the 
projects applied for 
 
 MW/ MWh 
No. of Projects Bid for  
RfS Reference No.  dated:   
Submitted by (Enter Full name and address of the Bidder) 
 
Authorized Signatory 
(Signature of the Authorized Signatory) 
(Name of the Authorized Signatory) 
(Stamp of the Bidder) 
Bid Submitted to NVVN Limited, 5th Floor EOC Building, 
NTPC Limited, A-8A, Sector 24, Noida 201301 
 
30.2 Documents to be Submitted Online 
Detailed instructions to be followed by the Bidders for online submission of response to 
RfS as stated as Annexure-C. The bidders shall strictly follow the instructions mentioned 
in the electronic form in respective technical bid and financial bid while filling the form. 
If the Bidder has submitted bid online and fails to submit the Bank Guarantee for 
requisite amount offline within 2 working days from last date of bid submission, 
then the same shall be treated as incomplete bid and Cost of RfS, Processing fee 
submitted at this stage will be encashed, the EMD(s) shall be returned and the 
submitted bid will stand cancelled and the respective bidder will be debarred from 
participating in any of the tenders issued by NVVN, for a period of 6 (six) months, 
starting from the last date of bid submission of this RfS 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 45 of 136 
 
All documents of the response to RfS submitted online must be digitally signed and 
uploaded on the website, https:// www.bharat-electronictender.com. Response to RfS 
shall contain the following: 
I. Technical Bid (First Envelope) 
 
The Bidder shall upload single technical bid containing scanned copies of the 
following documents duly signed and stamped on each page by the authorized 
signatory as mentioned below. 
(a) Formats - 7.1, 7.2 (if applicable), 7.3 A, 7.4, 7.5 (if applicable), 7.6, 7.7, 7.8/7.8A, 
7.9, 7.10 and 7.11 as elaborated in Clause 27 of the RfS. 
(b) All attachments elaborated in Clause 27 of the RfS, under the sub -clause k: 
Attachments, with proper file names. 
(c) All supporting documents regarding meeting the eligibility criteria. 
(d) Scanned Copies of NEFT/RTGS details towards Cost of RfS Document and Bid 
Processing Fee as mentioned in Bid Information Sheet. 
(e) Scanned Copies of requisite amount of Bank Guarantee/Payment on Order 
Instrument towards EMD as mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet. 
The Bidder will have to fill the Electronic Form provided at the Bharat ETS 
portal as part of Technical Bid. 
 
II. Financial Bid (Second Envelope) 
 
Bidders shall submit the single Financial Bid containing the scanned copy of following 
document(s): 
(a) Covering letter as per Format - 7.12 of the RfS 
(b) Preliminary Estimate of Cost of the Project as per Format 7.13 of the RfS 
 
Only a single storage charge (INR/kWh) for the Project applied for, shall have 
to be filled online in the Electronic Form provided at the ISN - ETS portal. The 
instructions mentioned in the Financial Bid Electronic Form have to be strictly 
followed without any deviation, else the bid shall be considered as non - 
responsive. 
 
Important Note: 
(a) The Bidders shall not deviate from the naming and the numbering formats of 
envelops mentioned above, in any manner. 
(b) In each of the envelopes (as part of online bid submission), all the documents 
enclosed shall be indexed and flagged appropriately, with the index list indicating 
the name of the document against each flag. 
(c) All the envelopes shall be properly sealed with the signature of the Authorized 
Signatory running across the sealing of the envelopes. 
(d) In case the Bidder submits the online documents on https://www.bharat- 
electronictender.com within the bid submission deadlines and fails to submit the 
offline documents in the office of NVVN within the bid submission deadlines, the 
online bid of the Bidder shall not be opened and shall be ‘archived (to be replaced 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 46 of 136 
 
with a suitable word based on the bidding portal)’ on the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com. Similarly, bids 
submitted offline but without any online submission on https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com shall not be opened and the EMD shall be returned to the 
respective Bidder. 
(e) In case of submission of Bank Guarantee against EMD online on or before 
the bid submission deadline, and non -submission of the hard copy of the 
Bank Guarantee to NVVN within the date as on 2 working days subsequent 
to bid submission deadline, then the same  shall be treated as incomplete 
bid and Cost of RfS, Processing fee submitted at this stage will be 
encashed, the EMD(s) shall be returned and the submitted bid will stand 
cancelled and the respective bidder will be debarred from participating in 
any of the tenders issued by NVVN, for a period of 6 (six) months, starting 
from the last date of bid submission of this RfS. 
(f) The tariff to be quoted in the Financial Bid shall be exclusive of GST (for providing 
the storage service). GST levied on the storage service being provided by the 
Project, if any, shall be passed through to the CSPDCL. 
 
31 Notice Board for Display 
The BESSD will have to put a notice board (at least 180 cm x 120 cm) at its project site 
main entrance prominently displaying the following message before declaration of COD. 
 
 
 
 
32 Validity of the Response to RfS 
The Bidder shall submit the response to RfS which shall remain valid up to the date as 
on 12 months from the last date of submission of response to RfS (“Bid Validity”). NVVN 
reserves the right to reject any response to RfS which does not meet the aforementioned 
validity requirement. 
125 MW/ 500 MWh STU-Connected Battery Energy Storage System 
Project Installed and operated by 
- -------------------- (insert name of the BESSD) 
[Under RfS for Procurement of 125 MW /500 MWh Battery Energy Storage 
Systems under Tariff-based Global Competitive Bidding in Chhattisgarh under 
PSDF 
Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution 
Company Limited 
Component of VGF scheme by 
Date of Commencement of Work: 
 Proposed date for Completion: 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 47 of 136 
 
33 Bid Preparation Cost 
The Bidder shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation of the 
response to RfS and participation in discussions and attending pre -bid meeting(s) etc. 
NVVN shall not be responsible in any way for such costs, regardless of the condu ct or 
outcome of the bid process. 
34 Clarifications/ Pre-Bid Meeting/ Enquiries/ Amendments 
34.1 Clarifications/ Doubts, if any, on RfS document may be emailed and/ or through 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com. The format for submission of clarifications is 
available on the portal. 
34.2 NVVN will make effort to respond to the same in the Pre -Bid Meeting to be held as 
mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet. A compiled list of such questionnaire and the 
NVVN’s response will be uploaded in the https:// www.bharat-electronictender.com. If 
necessary, amendments, clarifications, elaborations shall be issued by the NVVN which 
will be notified on the NVVN/ https:// www.bharat-electronictender.com. No separate 
reply/ intimation will be given for the above, elsewhere. In the event of the issuance of 
any revision or amendment of the RfS documents, the Bidders shall be provided a period 
of at least 7 days therefrom, for submission of bids. No clarifica tions will be issued 
subsequent to bid submission deadline. Post issuance of any amendments, Bidders shall 
be allowed a period of three (03) working days for seeking clarifications, after which no 
query or clarification shall be entertained. 
34.3 A Pre-Bid Meeting shall be held as mentioned in the Bid Information Sheet (Venue to be 
notified later on the NVVN’s website). 
34.4 Enquiries/ Clarifications may be sought by the Bidder by contacting the NVVN’s officials 
as per the details contained in the Bid Information Sheet. 
35 Right of the NVVN to Reject a Bid 
NVVN reserves the right to reject any or all of the responses to RfS or cancel the RfS or 
annul the bidding process for any project at any stage without assigning any reasons 
whatsoever and without thereby any liability. In the event of the tender being cancelled 
at any stage, the processing fee (excluding GST, if amount credited to the NVV N’s 
account), without any interests, shall be returned to the respective Bidders. 
36 Post Award Compliances 
36.1 Timely completion of all the milestones i.e. signing of BESPA, meeting Financial Closure 
Requirements/Conditions Subsequent (BESPA), Commissioning etc. will be the sole 
responsibility of BESSD. CSPDCL shall not be liable for issuing any intimations/ 
reminders to BESSDs for timely completion of milestones and/ or submission of 
compliance documents. 
36.2 Any checklist shared with BESSD by NVVN for compliance of above mentioned 
milestones to be considered for the purpose of facilitation only. Any additional documents 
required as per the conditions of Guidelines, RfS and BESPA must be timely submitted 
by the BESSD. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 48 of 136 
 
36.3 Tentative timelines of various activities to be carried out under this RfS are summarized 
as follows: 
 
Activity Duration 
Date of issuance of RfS Zero Date (A) 
Date of pre-bid meeting A+10 days 
Bid submission deadline A+30 days (=B) 
Issuance of LoAs B+45 days (=C) 
Effective Date of BESPAs C+ 30 days (=D) 
Application for connectivity by the BESSD D+30 days 
Financial Closure D+06 months 
Release of 1st tranche of VGF on financial 
closure subject to submission of BG and 
proof of possession of 90% of the total 
land. 
D+06 months (upon fulfilment of FC) 
Project commissioning D+18 months (=E) 
Release of 2nd tranche of VGF D+18 months (upon achieving COD) 
Release of 3rd tranche of VGF E+1 year 
36.4 Project monitoring activities under the RfS  shall include periodic Project site visits by 
Appropriate Central Government Organizations/Authority/Committee(s) authorized from 
time to time. 
36.5 Under this RfS, it is proposed to promote only commercially established and operational 
technologies to minimize the technology risk and to achieve timely commissioning of the 
Projects. Further, the BESSD shall ensure that the BESS installed is of requisite 
quality as per best industry practices and refurbished battery cells are not used in 
the project. BESS shall also ensure that the application software of the Energy 
Management System ( EMS) of the BESS shall be developed indigenously within 
India. The Bidder may indicate regarding the selection of technology and its details at 
the time of submission of bids in the prescribed Format 7.10 of the RfS. The technology 
proposed at the time of submission of response to RfS can be changed at the time of 
Financial Closure. 
36.6 The Bidder is required to undertake to furnish evidence of meeting the above criteria in 
line with provisions of Clause 23 of the RfS. The undertaking shall be submitted as per 
enclosed Format 7.9 of the RfS. 
36.7 The Projects shall also comply with the performance criteria as detailed in Clause 8 of 
the RfS.
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 49 of 136 
 
QUALIFICATION REQUIRMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
Bidders participating in the RfS should meet the qualifying requirements stipulated under clause 
37.1 (i) or 37.1(ii) or 37.1 (iii) or 37.1(iv) and 37.2, 37.3 & 37.4 as applicable. In addition, the 
Bidder should also meet the requirements stipulated under clause 39.0 together with the 
requirements stipulated in RFS. 
37 General Eligibility Criteria 
37.1 The Bidder must fall under either of the following categories: 
i. A Company under the Companies Act, 2013. 
ii. A Foreign Company under the respective nation’s laws. 
iii. Alternative Investment Funds (AIF) as registered under SEBI. “AIF” shall be as 
defined by SEBI. 
iv. A Consortium comprising the above entities. 
The above would be subject to the relevant Acts, Rules, Guidelines, Orders and Policy 
documents of the Government of India as amended from time to time. 
37.2 In case a foreign company i.e. the bidder under clause 37.1 (ii), is participating on 
standalone basis and it is selected as successful Bidder, it has to form a “Special Purpose 
Vehicle” (SPV), i.e. an Indian Company registered under the Companies Act, 201 3 as its 
subsidiary Company, with at least 51% shareholding in the SPV, before signing of BESPA 
and it shall comply with all the laws and provisions related to Foreign Direct Investment in 
India. 
In case the foreign company is participating as a member of consortium, Clause 37.4 
of the QR shall also be applicable. 
37.3 A Consortium i.e. bidder participating under clause 37.1 (iv), shall participate with one of 
the consortium partners as the Lead Member. The consortium shortlisted and selected 
against this RfS has to necessarily form a Project Company and get it registered under the 
Companies Act, 2013 prior to signing of Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement 
(“BESPA”), keeping the original shareholding of the Bidding Consortium unchanged. In 
case applications for multiple Projects have been made by a Consortium, separate Project 
Companies can be formed for each Project. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby clarified 
that the shareholding pattern of the Project Company shall be identical to the shareholding 
pattern of the Consortium. 
37.4 A consortium i.e. bidder participating under clause 37.1 (iv), selected as Successful Bidder 
for the purpose of implementing the Project, shall incorporate a Project company before 
signing of BESPA with the Buying Entity (CSPDCL) with equity participation by the 
Members in line with consortium agreement submitted with the bid 
i.e. the Project Company incorporated shall have the same shareholding pattern as 
that indicated in the Consortium Agreement given at the time of submission of response to 
RfS. This shall not change till the signing of BESPA and the Controlling Shareholding (Lead 
Member holding not less than 51% of the voting rights and paid-up share capital) shall not 
change from submission deadline of response to RfS up to Commercial Operation Date 
(COD) of the Project. Transfer of controlling shareholding within the same  group of 
companies will however be allowed prior to COD with the permission of CSPDCL, subject 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 50 of 136 
 
to the condition that, the management control remains within the same group of 
companies. 
Note for Clause 37.0 
a) Limited Liability Partnership (LLPs) are not eligible for participation. 
b) A Bidder which has been selected as Successful Bidder based on this RfS  can also 
execute the Project through a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) i.e. a Project Company 
especially incorporated/acquired as a subsidiary Company of the successful bidder 
for setting up of the Project, with at least 51% shareholding in the SPV which ha s to 
be registered under the Indian Companies Act, 2013, before signing of BESPA. 
Multiple SPVs may also be utilized for executing more than one Project. 
c) The Bidder or any of its Affiliates should not be a willful defaulter to any lender. Further, 
the Bidder & any of its Affiliate including any Consortium Member & any of its Affiliate, 
their directors, should not have been barred or included in the blacklis t by any 
government agency or authority in India, the government of the jurisdiction of the 
Bidder or Members where they are incorporated or the jurisdiction of their principal 
place of business, any international financial institution such as the World Bank Group, 
Asian Development Bank, African Development Bank, Inter -American Development 
Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank etc. or the United Nations or any of its 
agencies. The Bidder shall submit an undertaking to this effect. 
 
38 Not Used 
 
39 Financial Eligibility Criteria 
39.1 Net-Worth/ Asset Under Management (AUM) or Investible Funds 
a) The Net Worth of the Bidder should be positive for preceding three financial years prior 
to the date of Techno -commercial bid opening and equal to or greater than INR 
88,00,000 / MW of the quoted capacity in MW (i.e. INR 22,00,000 / MWH of the MWH 
capacity), as on the last day of the preceding financial year prior to the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening. For e.g., for a 500 MWh (125 MW x 4 hrs) Project Capacity, the 
minimum Net Worth requirement to be demonstrated shall be Rs. 88 lakh x 125 MW = 
Rs. 1,10,00,00,000 and should be positive for preceding three financial years prior to the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening. In case of the Bidder being a SEBI registered 
AIF, the cumulative value of Assets Under Management (AUM) with minimum 
requirement as per above shall be demonstrated. In this context, AUM shall mean the 
amount as certified by the Statutory Auditor of the AIF. 
b) The net -worth/value of AUM to be considered for the above purpose will be the 
cumulative net-worth of the Bidder/AIF or consortium members. Except in the case of 
AIFs, the Bidder may seek qualification on the basis of financial capability of its 
Affiliate(s) for the purpose of meeting the Net Worth criteria as per the RfS. In case of 
the Bidder being a Bidding Consortium, any Member may meet the above criteria on the 
basis of financial capability of its Affiliate(s). In both cases, such Affiliates shall undertake 
to contribute the required equity funding and performance bank guarantees in case the 
bidder(s) fail to do so in accordance with the RfS. 
c) Net Worth to be considered for this clause shall be the total Net Worth as calculated in 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 51 of 136 
 
accordance with the Companies Act, 2013. AUM or investible funds to be considered 
under this clause will be calculated in accordance with applicable SEBI (AIF) 
Regulations. 
 
39.2 Liquidity 
In order to  ascertain that the Bidder has sufficient means to manage the fund 
requirements for the Project, the Bidder shall be required to demonstrate the following 
parameter: 
a) A minimum average annual turnover of INR 2,92,00,000 / MW of the quoted capacity in 
MW (i.e. INR 73,00,000 / MWH of the MWH capacity), during the preceding three (3) 
financial years prior to the date of techno -commercial bid opening. It is hereby clarified 
that “Other Income” as indicated in the annual accounts of the Bidder shall not be 
considered for arriving at the annual turnover. 
 
39.3 Except for AIFs, the Bidder may seek qualification on the basis of financial capability of its 
Affiliate(s) for the purpose of meeting the qualification requirements as per Clauses 39.1 and 
39.2 above. In case of the Bidder being a Bidding Consortium, any Member (except an AIF) 
may seek qualification on the basis of financial capability of its Affiliate(s). In such cases, the 
Bidder shall be required to submit Board Resolutions from the respective Affiliate(s), 
undertaking to contribute the required equity funding and Performance Bank 
Guarantees/POI in case the Bidder(s) fail to do so in accordance with the RfS. In case of 
non-availability of the Board Resolution as required above, a letter from the CEO/ Managing 
Director of the respective Affiliate(s), unde rtaking the above, shall be required to be 
submitted along with bid and the requisite Board Resolution from the Affiliate(s) shall be 
required to be submitted prior to signing of BESPA. 
 
"Note: In case bidder is seeking qualification on the basis of financial capability of its 
Affiliate(s) for the purpose of meeting the qualification requirements, only standalone 
Financial Statement of Affiliate(s) would be considered." 
 
39.4 For the purposes of meeting financial requirements, only latest unconsolidated audited 
annual accounts shall be used. However, audited consolidated annual accounts of the 
Bidder may be used for the purpose of financial requirements, provided the Bidder has  at 
least twenty six percent (26%) equity in each Company whose accounts are merged in the 
audited consolidated account. 
39.5 A Company/Consortium would be required to submit annual standalone audited accounts 
for the last three financial years prior to the last date of bid submission, along with net worth, 
annual turnover and PBDIT certificate (as applicable) from a practicing C hartered 
Accountant/ Statutory Auditor to demonstrate fulfillment of the criteria. In case of foreign 
companies, the Bidders shall be required to submit the annual standalone audited accounts 
for the last three respective financial year as per the general norm in the country where the 
Bidder or its Affiliate(s) is/ are located, or provisional accounts in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 52 of 136 
 
Note: In case of foreign Bidders, in the event the Bidder is unable to furnish the 
audited annual accounts for the previous financial year as per the prevalent norm in the 
respective country, the Bidder shall submit the annual audited accounts of the last finan cial 
year for which the audited accounts are available. This, however, would be acceptable, 
subject to the condition that the last date of response to this RfS falls on or within the deadline 
for completion of audit of annual accounts of companies, as  stipulated by the laws/rules of 
the respective country, and the Bidder shall submit the corresponding documentary evidence 
against the same. In case the annual accounts or provisional accounts as on the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening, are submitted in a language other than English, a certified 
English translation from an approved translator shall be required to be submitted by the 
Bidder. 
39.6 For meeting the above financial eligibility criteria, if the data is provided by the Bidder in a 
foreign currency, equivalent Indian Rupees of Net Worth and other financial parameters will 
be calculated by the Bidder using Reserve Bank of India’s reference rates prevailing on the 
date of closing of the accounts for the respective financial year. 
39.7 In case of any currency for which RBI reference rate is not available, Bidders shall convert 
such currency into USD as per the exchange rates certified by their banker prevailing on the 
relevant date and used for such conversion. After such conversion, the  Bidder shall follow 
the procedure/ submit document as elaborated in Clause 39.6 above. 
39.8 In case the bidder has participated under Clause 39.1 (iv) i.e. Consortium, then the financial 
requirement (both the Net-Worth and Liquidity requirements) to be met by each Member of 
the Consortium shall be computed in proportion to the equity commitment made by each of 
them in the Project Company. For example, if two companies A and B form a Consortium 
with equity participation in 70:30 ratio and submit their bid for a capacity of 500 MWh (125 
MW x 4 hrs), then, total Net-Worth to be met by the Consortium is Rs. 88.00 Lakh x 125 MW 
= Rs. 110.00 Crores. The minimum requirement of Net-Worth to be met by Lead Member A 
would be minimum Rs. 77.00 Crores and to be met by Consortium Member B would be Rs. 
33.00 Crores. Similar methodology shall be followed for computation of liquidity requirement. 
 
39.9 For the purpose of meeting the technical and financial eligibility criteria, the Bidder may also 
use credentials of those companies having equal to or less than 50% shareholding in the 
bidding company, subject to the following: 
a) The qualification criteria parameters will be met proportionately to the equity contribution of 
the entity whose credentials are being used to meet the requirement. For example, in case 
of Net Worth requirement being Rs 110 Crore and the strength of a comp any is used which 
owns 30% of the total shareholding in the bidder, the said company should be able to meet 
up to Rs 33 Crore of the Net Worth. 
b) In case the strength of the company is being used for meeting the eligibility criteria, the 
shareholding pattern of the respective company will be locked-in up to COD of the Project. 
 
General Notes: 
 
If the Bidder is seeking qualification on the basis of  financial capability of its Affiliate(s), net 
worth of all such affiliate(s) shall be positive for preceding three financial years prior to the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 53 of 136 
 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening. In case of the Bidder being a Bidding Consortium, 
net worth of all the Members shall be positive for preceding three financial years prior to the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening 
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year prior to the date of Techno 
Commercial Bid Opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant/ Statutory Auditor along with net worth, annual turnover an d PBDIT 
certificate (as applicable) from a practicing Chartered Accountant/ Statutory Auditor shall be 
considered acceptable. In case the Bidder/ Affiliate(s) is not able to submit the financial 
results certified by practicing Chartered Accountant/ Statuto ry Auditor, the audited result of 
the financial year preceding the last financial year as on the date of techno -commercial bid 
opening along with net worth, annual turnover and PBDIT certificate (as applicable) for that 
year from a practicing Chartered Acc ountant/ Statutory Auditor shall be considered for 
evaluating financial parameters. 
 
Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the company for the last financial year 
as on date of Techno Commercial Bid Opening are under audit and the Certificate from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
In case, the Bidder is seeking qualification on the basis of financial capability of Affiliate(s) as 
per Clause 39.3, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO of the such Affiliate(s) as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that  the financial results of the 
company for the last financial year as on date of Techno Commercial Bid Opening are under 
audit and the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available.
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 54 of 136 
 
SECTION 4. BID EVALUATION AND SELECTION OF PROJECTS 
40 Bid Evaluation 
Bid evaluation will be carried out considering the information furnished by Bidders as per 
provisions of this RfS. The detailed evaluation procedure and selection of bidders are 
described in subsequent clauses in this Section. 
41 Techno-Commercial Evaluation of Bidders (Step 1) 
41.1 The first envelope (Technical Bid submitted online) of only those bidders will be opened by 
NVVN whose required documents as mentioned at Clause 30 of the RfS are received by the 
NVVN. Bid opening (online) will be done only after the deadline for submissio n of Bank 
Guarantee (if applicable) and/or DDs/Pay order against Cost of RfS document and Bid 
Processing Fee. 
For e.g., if the bid submission deadline is 18:00 hrs on 05.11.2025, the online bid opening 
will be conducted on 06.11.2025. In case of the above deadline being a holiday, the bids will 
be opened on the next working day. 
41.2 Subject to Clause 29 of the RfS , NVVN will examine all the documents submitted by the 
Bidders and ascertain meeting of eligibility conditions prescribed in the RfS. During the 
examination of the bids, NVVN may seek clarifications/additional documents to the 
documents submitted etc. from the Bidders if required to satisfy themselves for meeting the 
eligibility conditions by the Bidders. Bidders shall be required to respond to any 
clarifications/additional documents sought by the NVVN within 07 (seven) days from the date 
of such intimation from the NVVN. All correspondence in this regard shall be made through 
email / (https:// www.bharat-electronictender.com) only. It shall be the responsibility of the 
Bidder to ensure that the email id of the authorized signatory of the Bidder is functional. The 
Bidder may provide an additional email id of the authorized signatory in the covering letter. 
No reminders in this case shall be sent. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Bidders to 
remove all the discrepancies and furnish additional documents as requested. NVVN shall not 
be responsible for rejection of any bid on account of the above. 
41.3 The response to RfS submitted by the Bidder shall be scrutinized to establish Techno -
Commercial eligibility as per the RfS. 
42 Financial Bid Evaluation (Step 2) 
42.1 In this step evaluations of Techno -Commercially Qualified Bids shall be done based on the 
Storage Tariff, or the “First Round Tariff”, quoted by the Bidder in the Financial Bid. After this 
step, the shortlisted bidders shall be invited for the Reverse Auct ion. The “tariff” in this 
section, will refer to the Storage Tariff quoted by the bidders. 
42.2 Second Envelope (containing First Round Tariff) of only those bidders shall be opened whose 
technical bids are found to be qualified as per the RfS. 
42.3 The Bidder including its Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company will have 
to submit a single bid (single application) quoting a single tariff ( Storage Tariff) in Indian 
Rupee per MW for all the Projects applied for. The tariff has to be quoted in Indian Rupee 
per kWh (with two decimal places allowed) . If it is quoted with more than two decimal 
places, the digits after the second decimal places shall be ignored. (For e.g. if the quoted 
tariff is INR 3.456/kWh, then it shall be considered as INR 3.45/kWh). 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 55 of 136 
 
42.4 In this step, evaluation will be carried out based on tariff quoted by the Bidders. 
42.5 On completion of Techno -Commercial bid evaluation, if it is found that only one or two 
Bidder(s) is/are eligible for the next stage, opening of the financial bid of the Bidder(s) will be 
at the discretion of NVVN. Thereafter, NVVN will take appropriate action as deemed fit. 
42.6 If the first-round tariff quoted is same for two or more Bidders, then all the Bidders with same 
tariff shall be considered of equal rank/ standing in the order. 
42.7 All Bidders with same tariff shall be eligible for reverse auction round (provided their rank is 
equal to or less than nth Bidder as mentioned in Clause 43.2 of the RfS. 
42.8 Ranking of bidders after Financial Bid Evaluation: Following illustrates an example of ranking 
of bidders after financial bid opening and evaluation 
 
Bidder Submitted Financial Bid Ranking 
B1 ₹ 3.32 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L1 
B2 ₹ 3.34 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L2 
B3 ₹ 3.35 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L3 
B4 ₹ 3.35 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L3 
B5 ₹ 3.39 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L4 
B6 ₹ 3.60 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L5 
B7 ₹ 3.65 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L6 
B8 ₹ 3.70 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L7 
B9 ₹ 3.75 (Tariff in ₹/ kWh) L8 
 
43 Reverse Auction (Step 3) 
43.1 The reverse auction for the total tendered capacity shall be conducted on the portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com, on the day as intimated by NVVN to the eligible 
Bidders. 
43.2 Subsequent to opening of financial bid, Bidder quoting Highest rate (“H1” Bidder) shall be 
eliminated. However, if total number of bidders whose financial bid has been opened is less 
than equal to 4, no bidder shall be eliminated at this stage.  
 
Note: 
(a) In case more than one bidder is ranked as “H1” bidder, i.e. such bidders are at the same 
tariff, all such bidders will be eliminated at this stage, provided that the remaining number of 
bidders considered for RA after elimination shall be at least 4. 
 
At least one day prior to reverse auction, an advance intimation regarding the date and time 
of the reverse auction will be sent by e-mail to all the bidders whose technical bids have been 
opened and are found to be qualified. However, from this advance in timation it shall not be 
construed by the bidders that they have been shortlisted for Reverse Auction Further, at least 
two hours before the scheduled start time of Reverse Auction, a system generated email for 
invitation for Reverse Auction will be sent to all those bidders only who have been shortlisted 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 56 of 136 
 
based on the criteria mentioned at Clause 43.2 above. 
43.3 Shortlisted bidders for Reverse Auction will be able to login into the https://www.bharat - 
electronictender.com of reverse auction 15 minutes before the start time of reverse auction. 
a. During the 15 minutes prior to start of reverse auction process, the respective tariff of the 
bidder shall be displayed on its window. 
b. The minimum decrement value for tariff shall be INR 0.01 per kWh. The Bidder can mention 
its revised discounted tariff which has to be at least 01 (one) paisa less than its current tariff.  
c. Bidders can only quote any value lower than their previous quoted tariff taking into 
consideration the minimum decrement value mentioned in the previous clause. However, at 
any stage, increase in tariff will not be permissible. Bidders can improve their ra nking by 
quoting the tariff lower than their last quoted tariff. 
d. During reverse auction, the Bidder shall not have the option of changing the total project 
capacity while quoting tariff during reverse auction. 
e. In the bidder’s bidding window, the following information can be viewed by the bidder: 
i. Its tariff as the initial start price and there after last quoted tariff along with the project 
capacity for which the Bidder is qualified. 
ii. The list of all the Bidders with their following details: Pseudo Identity, last quoted tariff 
and project capacity 
f. The initial auction period will be of 30 (thirty) minutes with a provision of auto extension by 8 
(eight) minutes from the scheduled/ extended closing time. If any Bidder beats the L1 price in 
last eight minutes of auction period or extended auction period . If no such valid bid which is 
less than the instant L1 bid is received during last eight minutes of auction period or extended 
auction period, then the reverse auction process will get closed. 
 
44 Selection of Successful Bidders 
44.1 Subsequent to  conclusion of the e -RA process, the lowest quoting Bidder after reverse 
auction for the Project will be selected as Successful Bidder.  
44.2 Time stamping- In case of a tie among two or more Bidders (i.e. their last quoted tariff being 
the same), they will be considered in the chronological order of their last quoted tariff during 
the e-RA with preference to be given to that Bidder who has quot ed his last tariff during the 
e-RA, earlier than others. 
i. In the above case, if the time of quote also becomes exactly same among the Bidders at 
a tie, then the ranking among these Bidders shall be done as follows: 
● Step 1: Highest rank (i.e. L1) will be given to the Bidder who has quoted the lowest 
in Financial Bid (Electronic Form) and so on. If there is also a tie among any of these 
bidders, then the following step (Step 2) will be followed. 
● Step 2: Ranking will be done based on draw of lots. 
 
45 Issuance of LoAs 
a) At the end of the selection process, a Letter of Award (LoA ) will be issued to the successful 
Bidders for the Project. In case of a Consortium being selected as the successful Bidder, the 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 57 of 136 
 
LoA shall be issued to the Lead Member of the Consortium. 
b) In case CSPDCL is not satisfied with the rates/ tariffs as discovered after the bidding process, 
CSPDCL reserve the right to annul the bid process without any financial implications to any of 
the parties concerned. 
c) In all cases, CSPDCL’s/ NVVN’s decision regarding selection of Bidder through Reverse 
Auction or other- wise based on tariff or annulment of tender process shall be final and binding 
on all participating bidders. 
d) The BESPA signing date shall be within one month from the date of issuance of LoA or any 
other extended date as mutually agreed between CSPDCL and the successful bidder. In case 
of delay in signing of BESPA beyond 6 months from the date of issuance of LoAs, or any other 
extended date as mutually agreed between CSPDCL and the successful bidder, the 
successful bidder may choose to exit from this tender. Accordingly, the LoA issued to the 
respective Bidder shall stand cancelled. 
e) Adoption of tariff identified through this tender is subjected to approval of Hon’ble CSERC. In 
case of non-approval from CSERC, no parties shall be liable in any manner. 
 
46 GOVERNING LAW AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
46.1 Governing Law 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of India. 
Any legal proceedings in respect of any matters, claims or disputes under this Agreement 
shall be under the jurisdiction of appropriate courts in Chhattisgarh. 
46.2 Amicable Settlement and Dispute Resolution 
 
46.2.1 Amicable Settlement 
 
i. Either Party is entitled to raise any claim, dispute or difference of whatever nature arising 
under, out of or in connection with this Agreement (“Dispute”) by giving a written notice 
(Dispute Notice) to the other Party, which shall contain: 
(a) a description of the Dispute; 
(b) the grounds for such Dispute; and 
(c) all written material in support of its claim. 
 
 
ii. The other Party shall, within thirty (30) days of issue of Dispute Notice issued under Article 
16.2.1(i), furnish: 
(a) counter-claim and defences, if any, regarding the Dispute; and 
(b) all written material in support of its defences and counter-claim. 
iii. Within thirty (30) days of issue of Dispute Notice by any Party pursuant to Article 16 
(i) if the other Party does not furnish any counter claim or defence under Article 16 
(ii) or thirty (30) days from the date of furnishing counter claims or defence by the other 
Party, both the Parties to the Dispute shall meet to settle such Dispute amicably. If 
the Parties fail to resolve the Dispute amicably within thirty (30) days from the l ater 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 58 of 136 
 
of the dates mentioned in this Article 16.2.1. 
(iii) the Dispute shall be referred for dispute resolution in accordance with Article 16.3. 
46.2.2 Dispute Resolution 
Dispute Resolution by the Appropriate Commission 
i) Where any Dispute or differences arises in relation to this agreement of any nature 
whatsoever including the construction, interpretation or implementation of the provisions 
of this agreement as well as claim made by any Party for any change in or determination 
of the Tariff or any matter related to Tariff or claims made by any Party which partly or 
wholly relate to any change in the Tariff or determination of any of such claims could 
result in change in the Tariff, and relates to any matter agreed to be re ferred to the 
Appropriate Commission, shall be submitted to adjudication by the Appropriate 
Commission. Appeal against the decisions of the Appropriate Commission shall be 
made only as per the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003, as amended from time t o 
time. 
ii) If the Parties are unable to resolve the dispute or difference through mutual consultation, 
and if the dispute is not within the jurisdiction of the Appropriate Commission, the Parties 
shall adhere to the Dispute Resolution Procedures outlined in Annexure ‘E’.
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 59 of 136 
 
SECTION 5. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS 
47 Following terms used in the documents will carry the meaning and interpretations as 
described below: 
47.1 "ACT" or "ELECTRICITY ACT, 2003" shall mean the Electricity Act, 2003 and include any 
modifications, amendments and substitution from time to time. 
47.2 “AFFILIATE” shall mean a company that, directly or indirectly, 
i. controls, or 
ii. is controlled by, or 
iii. is under common control with,  a company developing a Project or a Member in a 
Consortium developing the Project and control means ownership, directly or indirectly, of 
more than 50% (fifty percent) of the voting shares of such company or right to appoint 
majority Directors. 
47.3 “APPROPRIATE COMMISSION” shall mean the Chhattisgarh State Electricity Regulatory 
Commission and as defined in the BESPA. 
47.4 “AVAILABILITY” shall mean as defined in Clause 8 of the RfS. 
47.5 ““APPC” or “Average Power Purchase Cost” during a year means the weighted average 
cost of the power purchased by CSPDCL Ltd including the cost of self -generation by 
CSPDCL Ltd. 
47.6 “Authorised Representative” of the Procurer: shall mean ‘NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam 
Limited’ or ‘NVVN’ the agency carrying out the tendering / bidding process shall be deemed 
to be the Authorized Representative of the ‘Procurer’ or ‘Buying Entity’ or ‘CSPDCL’ and will 
on behalf of the Procurer be responsible for fulfilling all the obligations imposed on the 
‘Procurer’ during the bidding phase, in accordance with these Guidelines. 
47.7 “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS” or “BESS” shall mean the system(s)/projects 
utilizing methods and technologies such as electrochemical batteries (Lead Acid, Li-ion, solid 
state batteries, flow batteries, etc.), providing a facility that can store chemical energy and 
deliver the stored energy in th e form of electricity, including but not limited to ancillary 
facilities (grid support, for example). Such systems may be co -located with RE Generating 
Stations, or may be operated on stand-alone basis. 
47.8 “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM DEVELOPER” or “BESSD” or 
“DEVELOPER” or 
“PROJECT DEVELOPER” or “DEVELOPER” shall mean the entity owning/operating the 
BESS facility for supply of power under the BESPA, and shall refer to the Bidding Company 
or a Bidding Consortium participating in the bid and having been selected and allocated a 
Project capacity by CSPDCL (throu gh a competitive bidding process), including the SPV 
formed by the selected bidder/ consortium for the purpose of setting up of the Project and 
signing of BESPA with CSPDCL. 
47.9 “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE PURCHASE AGREEMENT” or “BESPA” shall mean the 
agreement signed between the Selected Bidder/BESSD and CSPDCL according for 
procurement of capacity from the BESS, as per the terms and conditions of the standard 
BESPA enclosed with this RfS. 
47.10 “BID” or “PROPOSAL” shall mean the documents submitted by the Bidder towards meeting 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 60 of 136 
 
the techno -commercial and financial qualifying requirements, along with the price bid 
submitted by the Bidder as part of its response to the RfS issued by NVVN as Authorized 
Representative of CSPDCL. 
47.11 “BIDDER” shall mean Bidding Company (including a foreign company) or a Bidding 
Consortium submitting the Bid. Any reference to the Bidder includes Bidding Company/ 
Bidding Consortium, Member of a Bidding Consortium including its successors, executors 
and permitted assigns and Lead Member of the Bidding Consortium jointly and severally, as 
the context may require; foreign companies participating in the bidding process shall be 
registered as companies as per the rules of their country of origin. 
47.12 “BIDDING CONSORTIUM” or “CONSORTIUM” shall refer to a group of Companies that 
collectively submit the response in accordance with the provisions of this RfS under a 
Consortium Agreement. 
47.13 “BID CAPACITY” shall mean aggregate project capacity of the Battery Energy Storage 
System(s) as proposed by the Bidder. 
47.14 “BUYING ENTITY” or “Buying Utility” or “Discom” or “END PROCURER” shall mean 
Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Co. Ltd.  (CSPDCL). 
47.15 “CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT” shall mean a person practicing in India or a firm whereof 
all the partners practicing in India as a Chartered Accountant(s) within the meaning of the 
Chartered Accountants Act, 1949. 
For bidders incorporated in countries other than India, “Chartered Accountant” shall mean 
a person or a firm practicing in the respective country and designated/ registered under the 
corresponding Statutes/ laws of the respective country. 
47.16 “COMPANY” shall mean a body corporate incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 
2013 or any law in India prior thereto relating to Companies, as applicable. 
47.17 “COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE (COD)” shall mean the date as defined in Clause 24 
of the RfS. 
47.18  “CONTRACTED CAPACITY” or the “PROJECT CAPACITY” shall mean the capacity in 
MW/MWh (“X” MW x 4 hrs) contracted with CSPDCL for providing Energy storage facility to 
the Procurer for charging and discharging the system on “on-demand” basis, based on which 
the BESPA is executed with CSPDCL. 
47.19  “CONTRACT YEAR” shall mean the period beginning from the Effective Date of the 
BESPA and ending on the immediately succeeding 31st March and thereafter each period 
of 12 months beginning on 1st April and ending on 31st March provided that: 
a. in the financial year in which the Scheduled Commissioning Date would occur, the Contract 
Year shall end on the date immediately before the Scheduled Commissioning Date and a 
new Contract Year shall commence once again from the Scheduled Commissioning Date  
and end on the immediately succeeding 31st March, and thereafter each period of 12 
(Twelve) Months commencing on 1st April and ending on 31st March, and
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 61 of 136 
 
b. provided further that the last Contract Year of this Agreement shall end on the last day of 
the Term of this Agreement. 
47.20  “CONTROL” shall mean the ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% (fifty 
percent) of the voting shares of such Company or right to appoint majority Directors. 
47.21  “CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDING” shall mean more than 50% of the voting rights and 
paid up share capital in the Company/ Consortium. 
47.22  “CENTRAL TRANSMISSION UTILITY (CTU)” shall mean the Central Transmission Utility 
as defined in sub-section (10) of section 2 of the Electricity Act 2003. 
47.23 “DAY” shall mean calendar day. 
47.24 “Declared Capacity” – shall mean the amount of electricity (in MW ) that the BESS is capable 
of delivering, as declared by the BESSD for each 15 minute Time Block on Day ahead basis 
47.25  “EFFECTIVE DATE” shall mean the date as on 30 days from the date of issue of LoA, or 
the date of signing of BESPA, whichever is later (for example, if the date of LoA is 
07.04.2025, the Effective Date will be 06.05.2025 or date of signing of BESPA, whichever is 
later). Subsequent to expiry of the 30 -day period after the issuance of LoA, in case CSPDCL 
intimates to the Successful Bidder, a particular date as the date for signing of BESPA, the 
specified date shall become the Effective Date of the BESPA, irrespective of the d ate of 
signing of BESPA. 
47.26 “EQUITY” shall mean Net Worth as defined in Companies Act, 2013. 
47.27 “FINANCIAL CLOSURE” or “PROJECT FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS” means 
arrangement 
of necessary funds by the BESSD towards 100% Project Cost either by way of commitment 
of funds by the Company from its internal resources and/or tie up of funds through a bank/ 
financial institution by way of sanction of a loan or letter agreeing to finance; 
47.28 “GUIDELINES” shall mean “Guidelines for Procurement and Utilization of Battery Energy 
Storage Systems as part of Generation, Transmission and Distribution assets, along with 
Ancillary Services” issued by Ministry of Power vide Gazette Resolution dated 10.03.2022, 
including subsequent amendments and clarification thereof, if any, issued until the last date 
of bid submission of this RfS. 
47.29 “GROUP COMPANY” of a Company means 
a. a Company which, directly or indirectly, holds 10% (Ten Percent) or more of the share 
capital of the Company or; 
b. a Company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, holds 10% (Ten Percent) or more 
of the share capital of such Company or; 
c. a Company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has the power to direct or cause 
to be directed the management and policies of such Company whether through the 
ownership of securities or agreement or any other arrangement or otherwise or; 
d. a Company which, directly or indirectly, has the power to direct or cause to be directed the 
management and policies of the Company whether through the ownership of securities or 
agreement or any other arrangement or otherwise or; 
e. a Company which is under common control with the Company, and control means 
ownership by one Company of at least 10% (Ten Percent) of the share capital of the other 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 62 of 136 
 
Company or power to direct or cause to be directed the management and policies of such 
Company whether through the ownership of securities or agreement or any other 
arrangement or otherwise; 
Provided that entities which have Government shareholding, financial institution, scheduled 
bank, foreign institutional investor, Non-Banking Financial Company, and any mutual fund, 
pension funds and sovereign funds shall not be deemed to be Group Company,  and its 
shareholding and the power to direct or cause to be directed the management and policies 
of a Company shall not be considered for the purposes of this definition unless it is the 
Project Company or a Member of the Consortium developing the Project. 
47.30 “ISTS” shall mean Inter-State Transmission System. 
47.31 “InSTS” shall mean Intra-State Transmission System 
47.32 “INTER-CONNECTION POINT/ DELIVERY/ METERING POINT” shall mean a single point 
at the …………………. substation of Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Company 
Limited, at the voltage level of 220 kV, where the power from the Project(s) is injected into 
the grid (including the dedicated transmission line connecting the Projects with the substation 
system) as specified in the RfS document. Metering shall be done at this interconnection 
point where the power is injected into or drawn from. For interconnection with grid and 
metering, the BESSDs shall abide by the rel evant CERC/ CSERC Regulations, Grid Code 
and Central Electricity Authority (Installation and Operation of Meters) Regulations, 2014 or 
equivalent CSERC Grid Connectivity and Intra -state Open Access Regulations, 2013 as 
amended and revised from time to time. 
47.33 “JOINT CONTROL” shall mean a situation where a company has multiple promoters (but 
none of the shareholders has more than 50% of voting rights and paid up share capital). 
47.34 “LEAD MEMBER OF THE BIDDING CONSORTIUM” or “LEAD MEMBER”: There shall be 
only 
one Lead Member, having the shareholding of not less 51% in the Bidding Consortium. 
Note: The shareholding of the Lead member in the Project Company (Special Purpose 
Vehicle) cannot be changed till 01 (one) year after the Commercial Operation Date (COD) 
of the Project. 
47.35 “LETTER OF AWARD” or “LoA” shall mean the letter issued by CSPDCL to the selected 
Bidder for award of the Project. 
47.36 “LIMITED LIABILITY PARTNERSHIP” or “LLP” shall mean a Company governed by 
Limited Liability Partnership Act 2008 or as amended. 
47.37 “LLC” shall mean Limited Liability Company. 
47.38 “MEMBER IN A BIDDING CONSORTIUM” or “MEMBER” shall mean each Company in a 
Bidding Consortium. In case of a Technology Partner being a member in the Consortium, it 
has to be a Company. 
47.39 “MONTH” shall mean calendar month. 
47.40 “NET-WORTH” shall mean the Net-Worth as defined section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
47.41 “PAID-UP SHARE CAPITAL” shall mean the paid-up share capital as defined in Section 2 
of the Companies Act, 2013. 
47.42 “PARENT” shall mean a Company, which holds more than 50% voting rights and paid up 
share capital, either directly or indirectly in the Project Company or a Member in a 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 63 of 136 
 
Consortium developing the Project. 
 
47.43 “PROJECT” shall mean the Battery Energy Storage System set up by the BESSD for supply 
of Power on an “on Demand” basis, having single point of injection/drawl into/from the grid 
at Interconnection/ Delivery/ Metering Point, or in case of sharing of transmission line s, by 
separate injection at Pooling Point and having separate control systems and metering. The 
Project shall also comprise auxiliaries and associated facilities, bay(s) for transmission 
system in the their switchyard, dedicated transmission line up to the  injection point and all 
the other assets, buildings/structures, equipment, plant and machinery (pertaining to the 
BESS), facilities and related assets required for the efficient and economic operation of the 
power supply facility, whether completed or at any stage of development and construction 
or intended to be developed and constructed for the purpose of supply of power to CSPDCL.  
47.44 “PROJECT CAPACITY” shall mean the maximum AC capacity at the Delivery Point 
that can be scheduled on which the BESPA shall be signed; 
47.45 “PROJECT COMMISSIONING”: The Project will be considered as commissioned in line 
with the Commissioning procedure defined in the RfS/BESPA and upon certification thereof 
by CSPDCL. 
47.46 “PROJECT LOCATION” shall mean the area identified by the BESSD, comprising 
village(s), Tehsil(s)/Taluk(s) and District(s) within Chhattisgarh, where the Project is being 
implemented. 
47.47 “POWER ON DEMAND” shall mean the requirement of the Buying Entity to charge and 
discharge the BESS based on its requirements during the time of day, subject to provisions 
of the RfS and BESPA. 
47.48 “RENEWABLE ENERGY (RE) POWER” shall mean power from a RE Power generation 
facility. 
47.49 “RfS” or “RfS DOCUMENT” or “BIDDING DOCUMENT(S)” or “TENDER 
DOOCUMENTS” shall 
mean the “Request for Selection” document issued by NVVN, acting as Authorised 
Representative of CSPDCL, including standard Battery Energy Storage Purchase 
Agreement, along with subsequent clarifications and amendments thereof, vide RfS No. 
 dated  . 
47.50 “SCHEDULED COMMISSIONING DATE” or “SCD” shall be the date as indicated in Clause 
9 of the RfS. 
47.51 “SELECTED BIDDER” or “SUCCESSFUL BIDDER” shall mean the Bidder selected 
pursuant to this RfS  to set up the Project and supply electrical output as per the terms of 
BESPA. 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 64 of 136 
 
47.52 “STATE TRANSMISSION UTILITY” or “STU” shall mean Chhattisgarh State Power 
Distribution Co. Ltd.  
47.53 “STATUOTORY AUDITOR” shall mean the auditor appointed under the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 1956 / Companies Act, 2013 (as the case may be) or under the provisions 
of any other applicable governing law 
47.54 “TOE” shall mean Tender Opening Event. 
47.55 “TIME BLOCK” – shall refer to a 15 -minute interval for which electrical 
parameters and quantities are recorded by special energy meters in Indian Power 
Grid. 
47.56 “ULTIMATE PARENT” shall mean a Company, which owns more than 50% (Fifty Percent) 
voting rights and paid up share capital, either directly or indirectly in the Parent and Affiliates; 
47.57 “WEEK” shall mean calendar week;
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 65 of 136 
 
SECTION 6. SAMPLE FORMS & FORMATS FOR BID SUBMISSION 
The following formats are required to be submitted as part of the RfS. These formats are designed to 
demonstrate the Bidder’s compliance with the Qualification Requirements set forth in Section 4 and other 
submission requirements specified in the RfS. 
Format 7.1 
COVERING LETTER 
(The Covering Letter should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead 
Member of Consortium) 
Ref.No.   Date:   
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
To 
NVVN Limited 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No. ……….. dated ………….. for (Insert title of the RfS) 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We, the undersigned [insert name of the ‘Bidder’] having read, examined and understood in detail 
the RfS including Qualification Requirements in particular, terms and conditions of the standard BESPA 
for availability of Contracted Capacity for the Term of the BESPA to the Intermediary Procurer, hereby 
submit our response to RfS. 
We confirm that in response to the aforesaid RfS, neither we nor any of our Ultimate Parent Company/ 
Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Group Company has submitted response to RfS other than this response to 
RfS, directly or indirectly, in response to the aforesaid RfS (as mentioned in Format 7.8 under Disclosure) 
OR We confirm that in the response to the aforesaid RfS, we have a Group Company who owns more 
than 10% but less than 26% in the bidding company as well as other companies who may participate in 
this RfS, and accordingly, we have submitted requisite undertaki ng as per Format 7.8A in this regard 
[strike out whichever not applicable]. 
We also confirm that we including our Ultimate Parent Company/ Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Group 
Companies directly or indirectly have not submitted response to RfS for more than cumulative capacity of 
   MW/    MWh (to be specified as ½ of the tendered capacity) , including this response to RfS. 
We are submitting response to RfS for the development of following Project(s) [strike out one of the 
projects if not applicable]: - 
 
Project capacity (MW/MWh) Interconnection Point 
Details 
Project 
Preferenc
e* 
Total Area of 
the Project 
    
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 66 of 136 
 
    
 
*The preferences of the Projects shall be considered only for the last successful bidder whose total quoted 
capacity is more than the balance capacity. In this case, allocation will be done as described in Clause 
44.4 of the RfS. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the RfS, dated …………….…. [Insert date in 
dd/mm/yyyy], standard BESPA documents attached thereto, issued by NVVN on behalf of 
CSPDCL. In token of our acceptance to the RfS, BESPA and BESSA documents along with the 
amendments and clarifications issued by NVVN, the same have been digitally signed by us and 
enclosed with the response to RfS. We shall ensure that the BESPA is executed as per the 
provisions of the RfS and provisions of BESPA and shall be binding on us. Further, we confirm 
that the Project shall be commissioned within the deadline as per Clause 9 of the RfS. We further 
undertake that we shall demonstrate possession of 100% area of the identified land, within the 
timelines as per the RfS. 
 
2. Earnest Money Deposit (EMD):- (Please read Clause 17 carefully before filling) 
We have enclosed EMD of INR …………. (Insert Amount), in the form of Bank Guarantee 
no…………. [Insert bank guarantee number] dated [Insert date of bank guarantee] as per 
Format 7.3A from ………… [Insert name of bank providing bank guarantee] and valid up to…
 in terms of Clause No. 18 of this RfS. The total capacity of the BESS Project offered 
by us is …………. MW/ MWh. [Insert cumulative capacity proposed]. (strike off whichever is 
not applicable). 
 
3. We hereby declare that in the event our Project(s) get selected and we are not able to submit Bank 
Guarantee/POI of the requisite value(s) towards PBG, Consultancy Fee for the selected Projects, 
within due time as mentioned in Clauses 19 & 20 of this RfS o n issue of LoA by CSPDCL for the 
selected Projects and/or we are not able to sign BESPA with Procurer within the timeline as 
stipulated in the RfS for the selected Projects, CSPDCL shall have the right to take action as per 
provisions of Format-7.3A of the RfS. 
 
4. We have submitted our response to RfS strictly as per Section 7 (Sample Forms and Formats) of 
this RfS, without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes in 
the said Formats. 
 
5. Acceptance: - 
We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by NVVN/ 
CSPDCL in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the RfS shall be binding on us. We 
hereby expressly waive and withdraw any deviations from the provisions of the RfS and also waive 
and withdraw all claims in respect of this process. 
We also unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by CSPDCL in 
respect of award of Projects according to our preference order as above and in line with the 
provisions of the RfS, shall be binding on us. 
6. Familiarity with Relevant Indian Laws, Regulations and Orders:- 
We confirm that we have studied the provisions of the relevant Indian Laws, Regulations and Order 
issued by judicial bodies as required to enable us to submit this response to RfS and execute the 
BESPA, in the event of our selection as Successful Bidder. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 67 of 136 
 
7. In case of our selection as the Successful bidder under the scheme and the project being executed 
by a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) incorporated by us which shall be our subsidiary, we shall 
infuse necessary equity to the requirements of RfS. Further we will submit a Board Resolution prior 
to signing of BESPA with the Intermediary Procurer, committing total equity infusion in the SPV as 
per the provisions of RfS. 
 
8. We are submitting our response to the RfS with formats duly signed as desired by you in the RfS 
online for your consideration. 
 
9. It is confirmed that our response to the RfS is consistent with all the requirements of submission 
as stated in the RfS, including all clarifications and amendments and subsequent communications 
from NVVN. 
 
10. The information submitted in our response to the RfS is correct to the best of our knowledge and 
understanding. We would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response to the 
RfS. 
 
11. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our Bid are valid up to  (Insert date in 
dd/mm/yyyy) for acceptance [i.e. a period of 12 months from the last date of submission of 
response to RfS]. 
 
12. Contact Person 
 
Details of the representative to be contacted by NVVN/ CSPDCL are furnished as under: 
Name : …………………………………… 
Designation : …………………………………… 
Company : …………………………………… 
Address : …………………………………… 
Phone Nos. : …………………………………… 
Mobile Nos. : …………………………………… 
Fax Nos. : …………………………………… 
E-mail address : …………………………………… 
 
13. We have neither made any statement nor provided any information in this Bid, which to the best 
of our knowledge is materially inaccurate or misleading. Further, all the confirmations, declarations 
and representations made in our Bid are true and accurate. In case this is found to be incorrect 
after our selection as Successful Bidder, we agree that the same would be treated as a seller’s 
event of default under BESPA and consequent provisions of BESPA shall apply. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 68 of 136 
 
Format 7.2 
FORMAT FOR POWER OF ATTORNEY 
(Applicable Only in case of Consortiums) 
(To be provided by each of the other members of the Consortium in favor of the Lead Member) 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT M/s having its registered office 
at ………………………….……., …., and M/s …………………….…. having its registered office at 
…………………………………., (Insert names and registered offices of all Members of the Consortium) the 
Members of Consortium have formed a Bidding Consortium named (insert name 
of the Consortium if finalized) (hereinafter called the ‘Consortium’) vide Consortium Agreement 
dated……….……………… and having agreed to appoint M/s……………………………..…as the Lead 
Member of the said Consortium do hereby constitute, nominate and appoint M/s a 
company incorporated under the laws of ……….………and having its Registered/ Head Office at 
… as our duly constituted lawful Attorney (hereinafter called as Lead Member) to 
exercise all or any of the powers for and on behalf of the Consortium in regard to submission of the 
response to RfS No…………….. 
We also authorize the said Lead Member to undertake the following acts: 
i) To submit on behalf of Consortium Members response to RfS. 
ii) To do any other act or submit any information and document related to the above response to 
RfS Bid. 
It is expressly understood that in the event of the Consortium being selected as Successful Bidder, this 
Power of Attorney shall remain valid, binding and irrevocable until the Bidding Consortium achieves 
execution of BESPA. 
We as the Member of the Consortium agree and undertake to ratify and confirm all whatsoever the said 
Attorney/ Lead Member has done on behalf of the Consortium Members pursuant to this Power of Attorney 
and the same shall bind us and deemed to have been done by us. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF M/s ………………………………………….……., as the Member of the 
Consortium have executed these presents on this………. day of ........under the Common Seal of our 
company. 
For and on behalf of Consortium Member 
M/s…………………………. 
- (Signature of person authorized by the board) 
(Name 
Designation 
Place: 
Date:) 
Accepted 
 
 
(Signature, Name, Designation and Address
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 69 of 136 
 
of the person authorized by the board of the Lead Member) 
Attested 
 
(Signature of the executant) 
 
 
(Signature & stamp of Notary of the place of execution) 
Place: 
Date: 
 
Lead Member in the Consortium shall have the controlling shareholding in the Company as defined in 
Section-6, Definition of Terms of the RfS.
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.3A 
FORMAT FOR BANK GUARANTEE TOWARDS EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT 
(EMD) 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
 
Reference: ………………………………. 
Bank Guarantee No.: ........................… 
Date: ...................……... 
 
In consideration of the     [Insert name of the Bidder ] 
(hereinafter referred to as 'Bidder') submitting the response to RfS inter alia for   [Insert title of the 
RfS] of the cumulative  capacity of 
  MW/MWh [ Insert cumulative Project capacity proposed ] for offering Battery Energy 
Storage System on long term basis, in response to the RfS No.  dated  issued 
by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited (hereinafter referred to as the NVVN) and the NVVN considering 
such response to the RfS of ………[Insert the name of the Bidder] as per the terms of the RfS, the 
  [Insert name & address of bank ] hereby agrees unequivocally, irrevocably and 
unconditionally to pay to the NVVN at [Insert Name of the Place from the address of the NVVN] forthwith 
without demur on demand in writing from NVVN or any Officer authorized by it in this behalf, any amount 
upto and not exceeding Rupees  [Insert amount not less than that derived on the basis of 
Rs. 8.80 Lakhs per MW of cumulative capacity proposed,  only,  on  behalf  of  M/s 
 [Insert name of the Bidder]. 
 
This guarantee shall be valid and binding on this Bank up to and including  [insert date of 
validity in accordance with Clause No. 18 of this RfS] and shall not be terminable by notice or any change 
in the constitution of the Bank or the term of contract or by any other reasons whatsoever and our liability 
hereunder shall not be impaired or discharged by any extension of time or variations or alternations made, 
given, or agreed with or without our knowledge   or   consent,   by   or   between   parties   to   the   
respective   agreement. 
 
Our liability under this Guarantee is restricted to INR………………..(Indian Rupees 
  only). Our Guarantee shall remain in force until 
 [insert date of validity in accordance with Clause No. 18 of this RfS]. NVVN shall be 
entitled to invoke this Guarantee till [insert date of validity in accordance with Clause No. 18 
of this RfS]. 
 
The Guarantor Bank hereby agrees and acknowledges that NVVN shall have a right to invoke this BANK 
GUARANTEE in part or in full, as it may deem fit. 
 
The Guarantor Bank hereby expressly agrees that it shall not require any proof in addition to the written 
demand by NVVN, made in any format, raised at the above mentioned address of the Guarantor Bank, in 
order to make the said payment to NVVN. 
The Guarantor Bank shall make payment hereunder on first demand without restriction or conditions and 
notwithstanding any objection by   [Insert name of the 
Bidder] and/ or any other person. The Guarantor Bank shall not require NVVN to justify the invocation of 
this  BANK  GUARANTEE,  nor  shall  the  Guarantor  Bank  have  any  recourse against NVVN in respect 
of any payment made hereunder. 
 
 
 
 
 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of India and the courts at New 
Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. 
 
The Guarantor Bank represents that this BANK GUARANTEE has been established in such form and with 
such content that it is fully enforceable in accordance with its terms as against the Guarantor Bank in the 
manner provided herein. 
 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall not be affected in any manner by reason of merger, amalgamation, 
restructuring or any other change in the constitution of the Guarantor Bank. 
 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be a primary obligation of the Guarantor Bank and accordingly NVVN shall 
not be obliged before enforcing this BANK GUARANTEE to take any action in any court or arbitral 
proceedings against the Bidder, to make any claim against or any demand on the Bidder or to give any 
notice to the Bidder or to enforce any security held by NVVN or to exercise, levy or enforce any distress, 
diligence or other process against the Bidder. 
 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be effective only when the Bank Guarantee issuance message is 
transmitted by the issuing Bank through SFMS to   First Bank and a confirmation in this regard is received 
by NVVN. 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove, our liability under this Guarantee is restricted to INR   
(Indian Rupees   Only) and it shall remain in force until    [Date to be 
inserted on the basis of Clause No. 18 of this RfS]. 
 
We are liable to pay the guaranteed amount or any part thereof under this Bank Guarantee only if NVVN 
serves upon us a written claim or demand. 
 
Signature:   
Name:  
Power of Attorney No.:   
For 
 [Insert Name and Address of the Bank]   
Contact Details of the Bank: 
E-mail ID of the Bank: 
Banker's Stamp and Full Address. 
Dated this  day of  , 20 
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.3 B 
FORMAT FOR PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE (PBG) 
(To be submitted Separately for each Project) 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
Reference: ………………………………. 
Bank Guarantee No.: ........................… 
Date: ...................……... 
 
In consideration of the   [Insert name of the Bidder ] (hereinafter referred to as 
‘selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer') submitting the response to RfS inter alia for 
……………………………[insert title of the RfS] of the capacity of ………. MWh, at [Insert name 
of the place ], in response to the RfS  dated………… issued by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited as 
Authorized Representative of Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
the Procurer) and Procurer considering such response to the RfS of [Insert 
name of the Bidder] (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include 
its executers, administrators, successors and assignees) and selecting the Project of the Battery Energy 
Storage System Developer (BESSD) and issuing Letter of Award No.   to 
  (Insert Name of selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer) as per 
terms of RfS and the same having been accepted by the selected BESSD resulting in a Battery Energy 
Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) to be entered into, for procurement of capacity [from selected 
Battery Energy Storage System Developer or a Project Company, M/s   
{a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed for this purpose}, if applicable]. 
As per the terms of the RfS, the    [Insert name & address of Bank ] hereby agrees 
unequivocally, irrevocably and unconditionally to pay to the   [Insert name of the 
Procurer], (hereinafter referred to as Procurer, or Buying Entity at [ Insert Name of the Place from the 
address of the Procurer] forthwith on demand in writing from the Procurer or any Officer authorised by it 
in this behalf, any amount up to and not exceeding Indian Rupees    [Total Value] only, on 
behalf of M/s   [Insert name of the selected Battery Energy Storage 
System Developer/ Project Company] 
This guarantee shall be valid and binding on this Bank up to and including ………. and shall not be 
terminable by notice or any change in the constitution of the Bank or the term of contract or by any other 
reasons whatsoever and our liability hereunder shall  not be impaired or discharged by any extension of 
time or variations or alternations made, given, or agreed with or without our knowledge or consent, by or 
between parties to the respective agreement. 
Our liability under this Guarantee is restricted to INR   (Indian Rupees 
 Only). 
Our Guarantee shall remain in force until The Procurer shall be entitled to invoke this Guarantee 
till ………. 
The Guarantor Bank hereby agrees and acknowledges that the Procurer shall have a right to invoke this 
BANK GUARANTEE in part or in full, as it may deem fit. 
The Guarantor Bank hereby expressly agrees that it shall not require any proof in addition to the written 
demand by the Procurer, made in any format, raised at the above mentioned address of the Guarantor 
 
 
 
 
 
Bank, in order to make the said payment to the Procurer. 
The Guarantor Bank shall make payment hereunder on first demand without restriction or conditions and 
notwithstanding any objection by   [Insert name of the selected Battery Energy 
Storage System Developer / Project Company as applicable ] and/ or any other person. The Guarantor 
Bank shall not require the Procurer to justify the invocation of this BANK GUARANTEE, nor shall the 
Guarantor Bank have any recourse against Procurer in respect of any payment made hereunder 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of India and the courts at 
Chhattisgarh shall have exclusive jurisdiction. 
The Guarantor Bank represents that this BANK GUARANTEE has been established in such form and with 
such content that it is fully enforceable in accordance with its terms as against the Guarantor Bank in the 
manner provided herein. 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall not be affected in any manner by reason of merger, amalgamation, 
restructuring or any other change in the constitution of the Guarantor Bank. 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be a primary obligation of the Guarantor Bank and accordingly the 
Procurer shall not be obliged before enforcing this BANK GUARANTEE to take any action in any court or 
arbitral proceedings against the selected Battery Energy Stora ge System Developer/ Project Company, 
to make any claim against or any demand on the selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer/ 
Project Company or to give any notice to the selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer/ Project 
Company or to enfo rce any security held by the Procurer or to exercise, levy or enforce any distress, 
diligence or other process against the selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer / Project 
Company. 
This BANK GUARANTEE shall be effective only when the Bank Guarantee issuance message is 
transmitted by the issuing Bank through SFMS to  First Bank and a confirmation in this regard 
is received by the Procurer. 
The Guarantor Bank acknowledges that this BANK GUARANTEE is not personal to the Procurer and may 
be assigned, in whole or in part, (whether absolutely or by way of security) by the Procurer to any entity 
to whom the Procurer is entitled to assign its rights and obligations under the BESPA. 
Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove, our liability under this Guarantee is restricted to INR 
  (Indian Rupees   Only) and it shall remain in force until 
… We are liable to pay the guaranteed amount or any part thereof under this Bank Guarantee 
only if the Procurer serves upon us a written claim or demand. 
Signature:   
Name:    
Power of Attorney No.:    
For 
 [Insert Name and Address of the Bank]   
 
Contact Details of the Bank: 
 
E-mail ID of the Bank: 
Banker's Stamp and Full Address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated this  day of  , 20  
 
Witness: 
 
1. ……………………………………. 
 
Signature 
Name and Address 
 
2. …………………………………. 
 
Signature 
Name and Address 
 
Notes: 
1. The Stamp Paper should be in the name of the Executing Bank and of appropriate value. 
2. The Performance Bank Guarantee shall be executed by any of the Scheduled Commercial Banks 
as listed on the website of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and amended as on the date of issuance 
of Bank Guarantee. Bank Guarantee issued by foreign branch of a Schedul ed Commercial Bank 
is to be endorsed by the Indian branch of the same bank or State Bank of India (SBI).
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.3 C 
FORMAT OF PAYMENT ON ORDER INSTRUMENT TO BE ISSUED BY IREDA/REC/PFC (IN LIEU 
OF PBG) 
No. Date 
The Procurer, Registered 
 , 
 
Reg: M/s  (insert name of the BESPA signing entity) (Project No. 
 (insert project ID issued by the Procurer) – Issuance of Payment on Order 
Instrument for an amount of Rs.  
Dear Sir, 
1. It is to be noted that M/s.  (insert name of the POI issuing Agency) 
(‘IREDA/REC/PFC’) has sanctioned a non-fund based limit loan of Rs.   
(Rupees only) to M/s    under the Loan Agreement executed on 
 to execute Renewable Energy Projects. 
2. At the request of M/s    , on behalf of     (insert name of the 
BESSD), this Payment on Order  Instrument (POI) for an  amount of Rs. 
 (Rupees (in words)). This Payment on Order Instrument comes into 
force immediately. 
3. In consideration of the [Insert name of the Bidder] (hereinafter referred to as selected ‘Battery 
Energy Storage System Developer') submitting the response to RfS inter alia for selection of 
Contracted Capacity of ……….. MW, at …………[Insert name of the place] under RfS for 
 (insert name of the RfS), in response to the RfS dated issued by NTPC 
Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited as Authorised Representative of Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution 
Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the Procurer) and the Procurer considering such response to the 
RfS of ………[insert the name of the selected Battery Energy  Storage System Developer] (which 
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its executers, 
administrators, successors and assignees) and selecting the Project of the Battery Energy Storage 
System Developer (BESSD) and issuing Letter of Award No    to (Insert Name 
of selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer) as per terms of RfS  and the same having 
been accepted by the selected BESSD resulting in a Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement 
(BESPA) to be entered into with  [Insert name of the Procurer], (hereinafter referred to 
Procurer, or Buying Entity) for providing energy storage facility [from selected Battery Energy 
Storage System Developer or a Project Company, M/s {a Special 
Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed for this purpose}, if applicable]. As per the terms of the RfS, the 
  [insert name & address of IREDA/PFC/REC] hereby agrees unequivocally, 
irrevocably and unconditionally to pay to the Procurer at [Insert Name of the Place from the address 
of the Procurer] forthwith on demand in writing from the Procurer or any Officer aut horized by it in 
this behalf, any amount up to and not exceeding Rupees   [Total Value] only, on behalf of M/s   
[Insert name of the selected Battery Energy Storage System Developer/ Project Company]. 
4. In  consideration  of  the  above  facts,  IREDA/REC/PFC,  having  its  registered  office  at 
        , agrees to make payment for the sum of Rs.   lakhs (in 
words… ) to the Procurer on the following conditions: - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) IREDA/REC/PFC agrees to make payment of the above said amount unconditionally, without 
demur and without protest within a period of     days of receipt of request from the Procurer 
within the validity period of this letter as specified herein; 
(b) The commitment of IREDA/REC/PFC, under this Payment of Order Instrument will have the 
same effect as that of the commitment under the Bank Guarantee issued by any Public Sector 
Bank and shall be enforceable in the same manner as in the case of a Bank Guarantee issued 
by a Bank and the same shall be irrevocable and shall be honored irrespective of any 
agreement or its breach between IREDA/REC/PFC or its constituents notwithstanding any 
dispute that may be raised by the against the Procurer; 
(c) The liability of IREDA/REC/PFC continues to be valid and binding on IREDA/REC/PFC and 
shall not be terminated, impaired and discharged, by virtue of change in its constitution and 
specific liability under letter of undertaking shall be binding on its successors or assignors; 
(d) The liability of IREDA/REC/PFC shall continue to be valid and binding on IREDA/REC/PFC 
and shall not be terminated/ impaired/ discharged by any extension of time or variation and 
alternation made given or agreed with or without knowledge or consent of the parties (the 
Procurer and Bidding Party), subject to the however to the maximum extent of amount stated 
herein and IREDA/REC/PFC is not liable to any interest or costs etc; 
(e) This Payment of Order Instrument can be invoked either partially or fully, till the date of validity; 
(f) IREDA/REC/PFC agrees that it shall not require any proof in addition to the written demand 
by the Procurer made in any format within the validity period. IREDA/REC/PFC shall not 
require the Procurer to justify the invocation of the POI against the SPV/BESSD, to make any 
claim against or any demand against the SPV/BESSD or to give any notice to the 
SPV/BESSD; 
(g) The POI shall be the primary obligation of IREDA/REC/PFC  and the Procurer shall not be 
obliged before enforcing the POI to take any action in any court or arbitral proceedings against 
the SPV/BESSD; 
(h) Neither the Procurer is required to justify the invocation of this POI nor shall IREDA/REC/PFC 
have any recourse against the Procurer in respect of the payment made under letter of 
undertaking; 
5. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained anywhere in this POI or in any other documents, this 
POI is and shall remain valid upto   and IREDA/REC/PFC shall make payment 
thereunder only if a written demand or request is raised within the said date and to the maximum 
extent of Rs and IREDA/REC/PFC shall in no case, be liable for any interest, 
costs, charges and expenses and IREDA’s/REC’s/PFC’s liability in no case will exceed more than 
the above amount stipulated. 
6. In pursuance of the above, IREDA/REC/PFC and the Procurer have signed an Umbrella Agreement 
dated   setting out the terms and conditions for issue of letter of undertaking by IREDA/REC/PFC to 
the Procurer and the said terms and conditions shall be read as a part of this letter of undertaking 
issued for the project of the project of PP mentioned above. 
Thanking you,  
 
Yours faithfully 
For and on behalf of  
M/s.    
(name of the POI issuing agency).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.3 D 
FORMAT OF PAYMENT ON ORDER INSTRUMENT (POI) TO BE ISSUED BY IREDA/REC/PFC (IN 
LIEU OF EMD) 
No. Date 
The NVVN, Registered 
 , 
 
Reg: M/s  (insert name of the Bidder) – Issuance of Payment on Order 
Instrument for an amount of Rs.  
Dear Sir, 
1. It is to be noted that M/s.  (insert name of the POI issuing Agency ) 
(‘IREDA/REC/PFC’) has sanctioned a non-fund based limit loan of Rs.   
(Rupees only) to M/s   under the Loan Agreement executed on 
 to execute Renewable Energy Projects/Energy Storage Projects. 
2. At the request of M/s  , on behalf of   (insert name of the 
Bidder), this Payment on Order Instrument (POI) for an amount of Rs.   (Rupees
 (in words)). This Payment on Order Instrument comes into force immediately. 
3. In consideration of the   [Insert name of the Bidder ] 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  'Bidder')  submitting  the  response  to  RfS  inter  alia  for 
 [Insert title of the RfS ] of the cumulative capacity of ………. MW [ Insert 
cumulative Project capacity proposed] for supply of power there from on long term basis, in response 
to the RfS No.    dated  issued by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as the NVVN or Authorised Representative) and the NVVN considering such 
response to the RfS of 
………[Insert the name of the Bidder] as per the terms of the RfS, the   
[Insert name & address of IREDA/PFC/REC ] hereby agrees unequivocally, irrevocably and 
unconditionally to pay to the NVVN at [ Insert Name of the Place from the address of the NVVN] 
forthwith without demur on demand in writing from the NVVN or any Officer authorized by it in this 
behalf, any amount upto and not exceeding Rupees  [Insert 
amount not less than that derived on the basis of Rs. 8.8 Lakhs per MW of cumulative capacity 
proposed], only, on behalf of M/s 
 [Insert name of the Bidder]. 
4. In  consideration  of  the  above  facts,  IREDA/REC/PFC,  having  its  registered  office  at 
        , agrees to make payment for the sum of Rs.   lakhs (in 
words… ) to the NVVN on the following conditions:- 
(i) IREDA/REC/PFC agrees to make payment of the above said amount unconditionally, without 
demur and without protest within a period of     days of receipt of request from the NVVN within 
the validity period of this letter as specified herein; 
(j) The commitment of IREDA/REC/PFC, under this Payment of Order Instrument will have the 
same effect as that of the commitment under the Bank Guarantee issued by any Public Sector 
 
 
 
 
 
Bank and shall be enforceable in the same manner as in the case of a Bank Guarantee issued 
by a Bank and the same shall be irrevocable and shall be honored irrespective of any 
agreement or its breach between IREDA/REC/PFC or its constituents notwithstandin g any 
dispute that may be raised by the against the NVVN; 
 
(k) The liability of IREDA/REC/PFC continues to be valid and binding on IREDA/REC/PFC and 
shall not be terminated, impaired and discharged, by virtue of change in its constitution and 
specific liability under letter of undertaking shall be binding on its successors or assignors; 
(l) The liability of IREDA/REC/PFC shall continue to be valid and binding on IREDA/REC/PFC 
and shall not be terminated/ impaired/ discharged by any extension of time or variation and 
alternation made given or agreed with or without knowledge or consent of the parties (the 
NVVN and Bidding Party), subject to the however to the maximum extent of amount stated 
herein and IREDA/REC/PFC is not liable to any interest or costs etc; 
(m) This Payment of Order Instrument can be invoked either partially or fully, till the date of validity; 
(n) IREDA/REC/PFC agrees that it shall not require any proof in addition to the written demand 
by the NVVN made in any format within the validity period. IREDA/REC/PFC shall not require 
the NVVN to justify the invocation of the POI against the Bidding Party, t o make any claim 
against or any demand against the Bidding Party or to give any notice to the Bidding Party; 
(o) The POI shall be the primary obligation of IREDA/REC/PFC and the NVVN shall not be obliged 
before enforcing the POI to take any action in any court or arbitral proceedings against the 
Bidding Party; 
(p) Neither the NVVN is  required to justify the invocation of this POI nor shall IREDA/REC/PFC 
have any recourse against the NVVN in respect of the payment made under letter of 
undertaking; 
5. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained anywhere in this POI or in any other documents, this 
POI is and shall remain valid upto  and IREDA/REC/PFC shall make payment 
thereunder only if a written demand or request is raised within the said date and to the maximum 
extent of Rs and IREDA/REC/PFC shall in no case, be liable for any interest, 
costs, charges and expenses and IREDA’s/REC’s/PFC’s liability in no case will exceed more than 
the above amount stipulated. 
6. In pursuance of the above, IREDA/REC/PFC and the NVVN have signed an Umbrella Agreement 
dated   setting out the terms and conditions for issue of letter of undertaking by IREDA/REC/PFC to 
the NVVN and the said terms and conditions shall be read as a part of this letter of undertaking 
issued for the project of the project of PP mentioned above. 
Thanking you, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copy to:- 
M/s.   PP  
 
 
Yours faithfully For and on behalf of 
M/s.   
(Name of the POI 
issuing agency). 
( ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.3 E 
Bid Security Form Insurance Surety Bond (To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, if any, 
of the Country of the issuing Bank) 
 
To 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED,   
 
Insurance Surety Bond No.........................  
Date................................................. 
 
Dear Sirs, 
In  accordance  with  Invitation  for  Bids  under  your  Bid  Document  No. , 
M/s...............................[Bidder’s Name] having its Registered/Head Office at............................ 
(hereinafter called the 'Bidder') wish to participate in the said bid for [Name of Package] 
....................................................................................... 
 
 
As an irrevocable Insurance Surety Bond against Bid Security for an amount of ............................ 
(*)...................................... valid for days from ..................................................(**)   required to be 
submitted by the Bidder as a condition precedent for participation in the said bid which amount is liable to 
be forfeited on the happening of any contingencies as mentioned under the Bidding Documents. 
 
 
We, the    [Name & address of the Insurer] .........................................................having our Head 
Office at (#) guarantee and undertake to pay immediately on demand by NTPC VIDYUT  VYAPAR  
NIGAM  LIMITED  (hereinafter  called  the  'NVVN')  the  amount  of 
............................................(*) without any reservation, protest, demand and recourse. Any such 
demand made by the 'NVVN' shall be conclusive and binding on us irrespective of any dispute or 
difference raised by the Bidder and/or any right/remedy available to the bidder in terms thereof. 
This Insurance Surety Bond shall be unconditional as well as irrevocable and shall remain valid upto 
. (@) If any further extension of this Insurance Surety Bond is required, the same shall 
be extended to such required period (not exceeding one year) on receiving instructions from M/s 
...................... .......................[Bidder's Name] on whose behalf this Insurance Surety Bond is 
issued. 
In witness where of the Insurer, through its authorized officer, has set its hand and stamp on 
this..........................................................................day of...................................20..........at......... 
 
 
 
 
WITNESS: 
 
 
.................................................... .......................................................... 
(Signature) (Signature) 
 
 
.................................................... .......................................................... 
(Name) (Name) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.................................................... .......................................................... 
(Official Address) (Designation with 
Bank Stamp) 
 
Authorized Vide 
Power of Attorney No........................ 
 
Date.................................................... 
 
 
NOTE: 1. (*) The amount shall be as specified in the Bid Data Sheets. (**) This shall be the 
date of opening of Techno-Commercial bids. 
(#) Complete mailing address of the Head Office of the Insurer to be given. 
(@) This date shall be forty-five (45) days after the last date for which the bid is valid. 
2. The Insurance Surety Bond shall be from an Insurer as per guidelines issued by Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) as amended from time to time. 
3. The NVVN shall be the Creditor, the Bidder shall be the Principal debtor and the Insurance 
company/Insurer shall be the Surety in respect of the Insurance Surety Bond to be issued by the Insurer. 
4. The Insurance Surety Bond should be on Non-Judicial stamp paper/e-stamp paper of appropriate 
value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the state(s) where the Insurance Surety Bond is submitted or is to be 
acted upon or the rate prevailing in State where the Insurance Surety Bond is executed, whichever is 
higher. The Stamp Paper/e -stamp paper shall be purchased in the name of Bidder/Insurer issuing the 
Insurance Surety Bond. 
5. While getting the Insurance Surety Bond issued, Bidders are required to ensure compliance to the 
points mentioned in Form of Bank Guarantee/Insurance Surety Bond Verification Check List enclosed in 
this Section of Bidding Documents. Further, Bidders are required to fill up this Form and enclose the same 
with the Insurance Surety Bond. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.3 F 
Form of Insurance Surety Bond towards Performance Security 
 
 (To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act of India) 
 
 
 
 
Insurance Surety Bond No. ........................ 
Date.................................................. 
 
To, 
[Procurer’s Name & Address] 
 
 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
 
In consideration of the ................................ [Procurer’s Name] (Hereinafter referredto as the 
‘Procurer’ which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its 
successors, administrators and assigns) having awarded to M/s.................... [Contractor's Name] 
............................ with its Registered /Head Office at (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Contractor’, which 
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its successors 
administrators, executors and assigns), a Contract by issue of Procurer’s Notification of Award No. 
................ dated and the same having been unequivocally accepted by the contractor, resulting into 
a 
Contract bearing No.............. dated..........., valued at ................... for and the Contractor having 
agreed to provide a Contract Performance Guarantee for the faithful performance of the entire 
Contract equivalent to ..........(*) ..........%( percent) of the said value of 
the Contract to the Procurer. 
 
 
We ................[Name & Address of the Insurer] .................having its Head Office at ........................... 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Insurer’, which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or 
meaning thereof, include its successors, administrators, executors and assigns) do hereby guarantee 
and undertake to pay the Procurer, on demand any and all amount payable by the Contractor to the 
extent of 
..................(*) as aforesaid at any time up to........................(@) [days/month/year] without 
any condition, demur, reservation, contest, recourse or protest and/or without any reference to the 
Contractor. Any such demand made by the Procurer on the Insurer shall be conclusive and binding 
notwithstanding any difference between the Procurer and the Contractor or any dispute pending before 
any Court, Tribunal, Arbitrator or any other authority. The Insurer undertakes not to revoke this 
Insurance Surety Bond during its currency and or any period extended under the contract, without prior 
consent of the Procurer and further agrees that the guarantee herein contained shall be enforceable till 
ninety (90) days after expiry of its validity. 
 
 
The Procurer shall have the fullest liberty, without affecting in any way the liability of the Insurer under 
this Insurance Surety Bond, from time to time to extend the performance of the Contract by the 
Contractor for the purpose of which, the Insurer shall be liable to extend the validity of the present 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance Surety Bond without any demur, condition, protest and the Insurer shall at no point in time 
have an option of revoking the same. The Procurer shall have the fullest liberty, without affecting this 
Insurance Surety Bond, to postpone from time to time the exercise of any powers vested in them or of 
any right which they might have against the Contractor, and to exercise the same at any time in any 
manner, and either to enforce or to forbear to enforce any covenants, contained or implied, in the 
Contract between the Procurer and the Contractor or any other course or remedy or security available to 
the Procurer . The Insurer shall not be released of its obligations under these presents by any exercise 
by the Procurer of its liberty with reference to the aforesaid or any of them or by reason of any other act 
or forbearance or other acts of omission or commission on the part of the Procurer or any other 
indulgence shown by the Procurer or by any other matter or thing whatsoever which under law would, 
but for this provision, have the effect of relieving the Insurer. 
The Insurer also agrees and undertakes that the Procurer at its option shall be entitled to enforce this 
Insurance Surety Bond against the Insurer as a Surety, in the first instance without proceeding against 
the Contractor and notwithstanding any security or other guarantee that the Procurer may have in 
relation to the Contractor’s liabilities. 
Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove our liability under this Insurance Surety Bond is 
restricted to.........................(*) and it shall remain in force upto and including (@) 
and shall be extended from time to time for such period (not exceeding one year), as may be 
desired by M/s .......[Contractor's Name} on whose behalf this Insurance Surety Bond has been 
given. 
 
 
Dated this ............................. day of .................... 20.................. at........................................... 
 
 
 
 
WITNESS: 
 
 
 
 
 
1. .................................................... .......................................................... 
(Signature) (Signature) 
 
 
........................................................... ................................................. 
 
 
(Name) (Name) 
 
 
 
 
.................................................... ................................................. 
 
 
(Official Address) (Designation 
With Bank Stamp)
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Vide Power of Attorney No....................................... 
 
 
 
 
2.  
........................................... 
(Signature) 
 
Date.......................................... 
 
.................................................... 
(Name) 
 
 
.................................................... 
(Official Address) 
 
 
Notes: 1. (*) PBG shall be Rs. 22.00 Lakhs per MW x Contracted capacity (@) This date will be 
ninety (90) days beyond the Defect liability period as specified in the Contract. 
2. The Insurance Surety Bond shall be from an Insurer as per guidelines issued by Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). 
3. The Procurer shall be the Creditor, the Contractor shall be the Principal debtor and the 
Insurance company/Insurer shall be the Surety in respect of the Insurance Surety Bond to be issued 
by the Insurer. 
4. The Insurance Surety Bond should be on Non -Judicial stamp paper/e -stamp paper of 
appropriate value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the state(s) where the Insurance Surety Bond is 
submitted or is to be acted upon or the rate prevailing in State where the Insurance Surety 
Bond is executed, whichever is higher. The Stamp Paper/e-stamp paper shall be purchased in 
the name of Bidder/Insurer issuing the Insurance Surety Bond. 
5. While getting the Insurance Surety Bond issued, the Contractor is required to ensure compliance 
to the points mentioned in Form of Bank Guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond Verification Check List. 
 
Further, the Contractor is required to fill up this Form and enclose the same with the Insurance Surety 
Bond
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.4 
FORMAT FOR BOARD RESOLUTIONS 
The Board, after discussion, at the duly convened Meeting on [Insert date], with the consent of 
all the Directors present and in compliance of the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies 
Act 2013, as applicable, passed the following Resolution: 
1. RESOLVED THAT Mr/ Ms… , be and is hereby authorized to do on our behalf, all such 
acts, deeds and things necessary in connection with or incidental to our response to RfS vide RfS No. 
 for  (insert title of the RfS ), including signing and submission of all 
documents and providing information/ response to RfS to (Insert name of NVVN) the Authorised 
Representative of CSPDCL, representing us in all matters before the Authorised Representative of 
CSPDCL, and generally d ealing with the Authorised Representative of CSPDCL in all matters in 
connection with our bid for the said Project. ( To be provided by the Bidding Company or the Lead 
Member of the Consortium) 
2. FURTHER RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies 
Act, 2013, as applicable and compliance thereof and as permitted under the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Company, approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to invest total equity in the 
Project. (To be provided by the Bidding Company) 
[Note: In the event the Bidder is a Bidding Consortium, in place of the above resolution at Sl. No. 
2, the following resolutions are to be provided] 
FURTHER RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies Act, 
2013, as applicable and compliance thereof and as permitted under the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Company, approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to invest (   %) equity 
[Insert the % equity commitment as specified in Consortium Agreement] in the Project. (To be provided 
by each Member of the Bidding Consortium including Lead Member such that total equity is 
100%) 
FURTHER RESOLVED THAT approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to participate in 
consortium with M/s ------------ [Insert the name of other Members in the Consortium] and Mr/ Ms… , 
be and is hereby authorized to execute the Consortium Agreement. (To be provided 
by each Member of the Bidding Consortium including Lead Member) 
And 
FURTHER RESOLVED THAT approval of the Board be and is hereby accorded to contribute such 
additional amount over and above the percentage limit (specified for the Lead Member in the Consortium 
Agreement) to the extent becoming necessary towards the total equity share in the Proj ect Company, 
obligatory on the part of the Consortium pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in the Consortium 
Agreement dated executed by the Consortium as per the provisions of the RfS. 
[To be passed by the Lead Member of the Bidding Consortium] 
3. NOT USED 
In case of a Consortium the respective Boards of all Consortium Members should pass the aforesaid 
Resolution before execution of Consortium Agreement. 
 
Certified True Copy
 
 
 
 
 
---------------------------- 
(Signature, Name and Stamp of Company Secretary) 
 
 
Notes: 
1) This certified true copy should be submitted on the letterhead of the Company, signed by the 
Company Secretary/ Director. 
2) The contents of the format may be suitably re -worded indicating the identity of the entity passing 
the resolution. 
3) This format may be modified only to the limited extent required to comply with the local regulations 
and laws applicable to a foreign entity submitting this resolution. For example, reference to 
Companies Act, 1956 or Companies Act, 2013 as applicable may be suitably modified to refer to 
the law applicable to the entity submitting the resolution. However, in such case, the foreign entity 
shall submit an unqualified opinion issued by the legal counsel of such foreign entity, stating that 
the Board resolutions are in compliance with the applicable laws of the respective jurisdictions of 
the issuing Company and the authorizations granted therein are true and valid.
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.5 
FORMAT FOR CONSORTIUM AGREEMENT 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act, the Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of Appropriate Value) 
 
THIS Consortium Agreement (“Agreement”) executed on this     Day of   Two Thousand 
    between M/s    [Insert name of Lead Member ] a Company 
incorporated  under  the  laws  of    and  having  its  Registered  Office  at 
  (hereinafter called the “ Member-1”, which expression shall 
include  its  successors,    executors    and    permitted    assigns)    and    M/s 
  a Company incorporated under the laws of   and 
having its Registered Office at    (hereinafter called the 
“Member-2”, which expression shall include its successors, executors and permitted assigns), M/s 
   a Company incorporated under the laws of   
and having its Registered Office at    (hereinafter called the 
“Member-n”, which expression shall include its successors, executors and permitted assigns), [ The 
Bidding Consortium should list the details of all the Consortium Members ] for the purpose of submitting 
response to RfS and execution of Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (in case of award), against 
RfS No.  dated  issued by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited ( the Authorised 
Representative) a Company  incorporated  under  the  Companies  Act, 2013,  and  having  its Registered 
Office at 
 . 
WHEREAS, each Member individually shall be referred to as the “Member” and all of the Members shall 
be collectively referred to as the “Members” in this Agreement. 
WHEREAS the  (insert name of the Procurer) desires to purchase Power under RfS for   
(insert title of the RfS); 
WHEREAS, the Authorised Representative had invited response to RfS vide its Request for Selection 
(RfS) dated   
WHEREAS the RfS stipulates that in case response to RfS  is being submitted by a Bidding Consortium, 
the Members of the Consortium will have to submit a legally enforceable Consortium Agreement in a 
format specified by the Authorised Representative wherein the Consortium Members have to commit 
equity investment of a specific percentage for the Project. 
NOW THEREFORE, THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSTH AS UNDER: 
In consideration of the above premises and agreements all the Members in this Bidding Consortium do 
hereby mutually agree as follows: 
1. We, the Members of the Consortium and Members to the Agreement do hereby unequivocally 
agree that Member-1 (M/s ), shall act as the Lead Member as defined in the RfS 
for self and agent for and on behalf of Member-2,   , Member-n and to submit the response to 
the RfS. 
2. The Lead Member is hereby authorized by the Members of the Consortium and Members to the 
Agreement to bind the Consortium and receive instructions for and on their behalf. 
3. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in this Agreement, the Lead Member shall always be 
 
 
 
 
 
liable for the equity investment obligations of all the Consortium Members i.e. for both its own 
liability as well as the liability of other Members. 
 
4. The Lead Member shall be liable and responsible for ensuring the individual and collective 
commitment of each of the Members of the Consortium in discharging all of their respective equity 
obligations. Each Member further undertakes to be individually liab le for the performance of its 
part of the obligations without in any way limiting the scope of collective liability envisaged in this 
Agreement. 
5. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the share of each Member of the Consortium in the issued 
equity share capital of the Project Company is/shall be in the following proportion: 
 
Name Percentage 
Member 1 --- 
Member 2 --- 
Member n --- 
Total 100% 
We acknowledge that after the execution of BESPA, the controlling shareholding (having not less 
than 51% of the voting rights and paid up share capital) in the Project Company developing the 
Project shall be maintained upto COD of the Project. 
6. The Lead Member, on behalf of the Consortium, shall inter alia undertake full responsibility for 
liaising with Lenders or through internal accruals and mobilizing debt resources for the Project, 
and ensuring that the Seller achieves Financial Closure in terms of the BESPA. 
7. In case of any breach of any equity investment commitment by any of the Consortium Members, 
the Lead Member shall be liable for the consequences thereof. 
8. Except as specified in the Agreement, it is agreed that sharing of responsibilities as aforesaid and 
equity investment obligations thereto shall not in any way be a limitation of responsibility of the 
Lead Member under these presents. 
9. It is further specifically agreed that the financial liability for equity contribution of the Lead Member 
shall not be limited in any way so as to restrict or limit its liabilities. The Lead Member shall be 
liable irrespective of its scope of work or financial commitments. 
10. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of India and courts 
at New Delhi alone shall have the exclusive jurisdiction in all matters relating thereto and arising 
thereunder. 
11. It is hereby further agreed that in case of being selected as the Successful Bidder, the Members 
do hereby agree that they shall furnish the Performance Guarantee in favour of the Procurer in 
terms of the RfS. 
12. It is further expressly agreed that the Agreement shall be irrevocable and shall form an integral 
part of the Battery Energy Storage Purchase Agreement (BESPA) and shall remain valid until the 
expiration or early termination of the BESPA in terms thereof, unless expressly agreed to the 
contrary by the Procurer. 
 
 
 
 
 
13. The Lead Member is authorized and shall be fully responsible for the accuracy and veracity of the 
representations and information submitted by the Members respectively from time to time in the 
response to RfS. 
14. It is hereby expressly understood between the Members that no Member at any given point of time, 
may assign or delegate its rights, duties or obligations under the BESPA except with prior written 
consent of the Procurer. 
15. This Agreement 
a) has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of each Member hereto and constitutes the 
legal, valid, binding and enforceable obligation of each such Member; 
b) sets forth the entire understanding of the Members hereto with respect to the subject matter 
hereof; and 
c) may not be amended or modified except in writing signed by each of the Members and with 
prior written consent of the Procurer. 
16. All the terms used in capitals in this Agreement but not defined herein shall have the meaning as 
per the RfS and BESPA. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Members have, through their authorized representatives, executed these 
present on the Day, Month and Year first mentioned above. 
For M/s [Member 1] 
 
 
(Signature, Name & Designation of the person authorized vide Board Resolution Dated  ) 
Witnesses: 
 
 
1) Signature----------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
2) Signature --------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
 
 
For M/s [Member 2] 
 
 
(Signature, Name & Designation of the person authorized vide Board Resolution Dated  ) 
 
 
Witnesses: 
 
1) Signature ----------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
2) Signature ---------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For M/s [Member n] 
 
 
 
 
(Signature, Name & Designation of the person authorized vide Board Resolution Dated  ) 
Witnesses: 
1) Signature ----------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
(2) Signature ---------------------- 
Name: 
Address: 
 
 
 
Signature and stamp of  Notary of the place of execution
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.6 
FORMAT FOR FINANCIAL REQUIREMENT 
(This should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
To 
 
(Enter address of the NVVN) 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
We certify that the Bidding Company/Member in a Bidding Consortium is meeting the financial eligibility 
requirements as per the provisions of the RfS. Accordingly, the Bidder, with the support of its Affiliates, 
(strike out if not applicable) is fulfilling  the minimum Net Worth/AUM criteria, by demonstrating a Net 
Worth/AUM of Rs.………….. Cr. (………………… in words) as on the last date of Financial Year 2023 - 
24/2022-23 or as on the date at least 7 days prior to the bid submission deadline (Strike our wherever not 
applicable). 
This Net Worth/AUM has been calculated in accordance with instructions provided in Clause 39.1 of the 
RfS. 
Exhibit (i): Applicable in case of Bidding Company 
For the above calculations, we have considered the Net Worth/AUM by Bidding Company and/ or its Affiliate(s) 
as per following details: 
 
Name of Bidding 
Company 
Name of Affiliate(s) 
whose net worth is to 
be considered 
Relationship 
with Bidding 
Company* 
Net Worth/AUM 
(in Rs. Crore) 
 
Company 1 
   
   
   
Total  
*The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability of 
Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a pr acticing company secretary/ chartered accountant is 
required to be attached with the format. 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit (ii): Applicable in case of Bidding Consortium 
(To be filled by each Member in a Bidding Consortium separately) Name of Member: [Insert name of the 
Member] 
 
Net Worth/AUM Requirement to be met by Member in Proportion to the Equity Commitment: INR --------- 
---- Crore (Equity Commitment (%) * Rs. [ ] Crore) 
For the above calculations, we have considered Net Worth/AUM by Member in Bidding Consortium and/ 
or its Affiliate(s) per following details: 
 
 
Name of 
Consortium 
Member 
Company 
Name of 
Affiliate(s) 
whose net 
worth/AUM 
is to be 
considered 
 
Relationship 
with Bidding 
Company* 
(If any) 
 
Net 
Worth/AUM 
(in Rs. 
Crore) 
Equity 
Commitment 
(in %age) in 
Bidding 
Consortium 
Committed 
Net 
Worth/AUM 
(in Rs. 
Crore) 
Company 1      
---      
Total    
 
* The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability of 
Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a p racticing company secretary/chartered accountant is 
required to be attached with the format 
Further, we certify that the Bidding Company/ Member in the Bidding Consortium, with the support of its 
Affiliates, (strike out if not applicable) is fulfilling the minimum Annual Turnover Criteria, by demonstrating 
an Annual Turnover of INR  ( in words) as on the end of Financial Year 2023-24/2022- 
23 or as on the day at least 7 days prior to the bid submission deadline (choose one). (Strike out if not 
applicable) 
Exhibit (i): Applicable in case of Bidding Company 
For the above calculations, we have considered the Annual Turnover by Bidding Company and/ or its 
Affiliate(s) as per following details: 
 
Name of Bidding 
Company 
Name of Affiliate(s) 
whose Annual Turnover 
is to be considered 
Relationship with 
Bidding Company* 
Average 
Annual 
Turnover 
during 
precedin
g three 
Financial 
Years 
(In Rs. Crore) 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Company 1 
   
Total  
*The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability of 
Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a pr acticing company secretary/chartered accountant is 
required to be attached with the format. 
 
Exhibit (ii): Applicable in case of Bidding Consortium 
(To be filled by each Member in a Bidding Consortium separately) 
Name of Member: [Insert name of the Member] 
 
Annual Turnover Requirement to be met by Member in Proportion to the Equity Commitment: INR -------- 
- Crore (Equity Commitment (%) * Rs. [ ] Crore) 
For the above calculations, we have considered Annual Turnover by Member in Bidding Consortium 
and/ or its Affiliate(s) as per following details: 
 
 
Name of 
Consortiu 
m Member 
Company 
Name of 
Affiliate(s) 
whose Average 
Annual 
Turnover is to 
be considered 
Relationshi 
p with 
Bidding 
Company* (If 
Any) 
Average Annual 
Turnover during 
preceding three 
Financial Years 
(In Rs. Crore) 
Equity 
Commitment (in 
%age) in Bidding 
Consortium 
Proportio 
nate 
Average 
Annual 
Turnover 
during 
preceding 
three 
Financial 
Years 
(In Rs. Crore) 
Company 1      
---      
---      
Total    
 
* The column for “Relationship with Bidding Company” is to be filled only in case the financial capability of 
Affiliate has been used for meeting Qualification Requirements. Further, documentary evidence to 
establish the relationship, duly certified by a p racticing company secretary/chartered accountant is 
required to be attached with the format 
 
 
(Signature & Name of the Authorized Signatory) (Signature and Stamp of CA) 
 
 
Date: 
Membership No. 
Regn. No. of the 
CA’s Firm:
 
 
 
 
 
Note: (i) Along with the above format, in a separate sheet on the letterhead of the Chartered Accountant’s 
Firm, provide details of computation of Net Worth and Annual Turnover duly certified by the 
Chartered Accountant. 
(ii) Certified copies of Balance sheet, Profit & Loss Account, Schedules and Cash Flow Statements 
are to be enclosed in complete form along with all the Notes to Accounts.
 
 
 
 
 
FORMAT 7.7 
UNDERTAKING 
(To be submitted on the letterhead of the Bidder) 
 
 
We, hereby provide this undertaking to NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited, in respect to our response to 
RfS vide RfS No.  dated , that M/s  (insert name of 
the Bidder), or any of its Affiliates is not a willful defaulter to any lender. 
Further, we also undertake that as on the bid submission deadline, the Bidder & any of its Affiliate, 
including any Consortium Member & any of its Affiliate, their directors have not been barred or included in 
the blacklist by any government agency or auth ority in India, the government of the jurisdiction of the 
Bidder or Members where they are incorporated or the jurisdiction of their principal place of business, any 
international financial institution such as the World Bank Group, Asian Development Bank, African 
Development Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank etc. or the 
United Nations or any of its agencies. 
 
 
(Name and Signature of the Authorized Signatory)
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.8 
FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE 
(To be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Each Member of Consortium) 
DISCLOSURE 
 
 
Ref.No.   Date:   
 
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
 
(Enter address of the NVVN) 
 
Sub:  Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We hereby declare and confirm that only we are participating in the RfS Selection process for the RfS No.
 and that our Parent, Affiliate or Ultimate Parent or any Group Company with which we 
have direct or indirect relationship are not separately participating in this selection process. 
We further declare that the above statement is true & correct. We undertake that if at any stage it is found 
to be incorrect, in addition to actions applicable under the RfS/BESPA including but not limited to 
cancellation  of  our  response  to  this  RfS  and  LoA/BESPA  as  applicable,  we,  i.e.  M/s 
 (enter name of the bidding company/member in a consortium), including our Parent, 
Ultimate Parent, and our Affiliates shall be suspended/debarred from participating in any of the upcoming 
tenders issued by the NVVN for a period of 2 years from the date of default as notified by the NVVN. 
We also understand that the above is in addition to the penal consequences that may follow from the 
relevant laws for the time being in force. 
We further declare that we have read the provisions of Clause 37.4 of the RfS, and are complying with the 
requirements as per the referred OM dated 23.02.2023 except Sl. 17 of the OM, including subsequent 
amendments and clarifications thereto. Accordingly,  we are also enclosing necessary certificates 
(Annexure to this format) in support of the above compliance under the RfS. We understand that in case 
of us being selected under this RfS, any of the above certificates is found false, NVVN/ CSPDCL shall 
take appropriate action as deemed necessary. 
 
 
Dated the day of , 20….
 
 
 
 
 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration.
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.8A 
FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE 
(To be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Each Member of Consortium) 
(To be submitted by all such bidders in which a common Company/companies directly/indirectly 
own(s) more than 10% but less than 26% shareholding) 
DISCLOSURE 
Ref.No.   Date:   
 
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
Tel. #: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
To 
 
(Enter address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We hereby declare and confirm that in terms of the definitions of the RfS, M/s  (enter 
name of the common shareholder) is our Group Company, and has a direct/indirect shareholding of less 
than 26% in the bidding company. M/s  (enter name of the common shareholder) also holds 
directly/indirectly less than 26% shareholding in other Companies which may participate in this RfS, i.e. 
RfS No. . 
We undertake that M/s   (enter name of the above common shareholder) is not a party to 
the decision-making process for submission of response to this RfS by M/s   
(enter name of the bidding company/member in the consortium). We further undertake that while 
undertaking any action as part of our response to RfS, we are not complicit with other such bidders 
participating in this RfS, in which M/s   (enter name of the common shareholder) has less than 26% 
direct/indirect shareholding, if any. 
We further declare that the above statement is true & correct. We undertake that if at any stage it is found 
to be incorrect, in addition to actions applicable under the RfS/BESPA including but not limited to 
cancellation  of  our  response  to  this  RfS  and  LoA/BESPA  as  applicable,  we,  i.e.  M/s 
 (enter name of the bidding company/member in a consortium), including our Parent, 
Ultimate Parent, and our Affiliates shall be suspended/debarred from participating in any of the upcoming 
tenders issued by the NVVN for a period of 2 years from the date of default as notified by the NVVN. 
We also understand that the above is in addition to the penal consequences that may follow from the 
relevant laws for the time being in force. 
We further declare that we have read the provisions of Clause 37.4 of the RfS, and are complying with 
the requirements as per the referred OM dated 23.02.2023 except Sl. 17 of the OM, including subsequent 
amendments and clarifications thereto. Accordingly, we are also enclosing necessary certificates
 
 
 
 
 
(Annexure to this format) in support of the above compliance under the RfS. We understand that in case 
of us being selected under this RfS, any of the above certificates is found false, NVVN/ CSPDCL shall 
take appropriate action as deemed necessary. 
Dated the day of , 20 . 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration.
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure to Format 7.8/7.8A 
DECLARATION 
 
RESTRICTION ON PROCUREMENT FROM CERTAIN COUNTRIES: 
MoF OM F.7/10/2021-PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023 
 
(To be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Each Member of Consortium) 
 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
 
(Enter address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to the RfS No ………………… dated for the tender for 
………………………………………………… 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
This is with reference to attached order vide OM No. F.7/10/2021-PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023 issued by 
Department of Expenditure, MoF, Govt of India. 
 
We are hereby submitting the following declaration in this regard: 
 
"l have read the clause regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country which shares a 
land border with India; I certify that this bidder is not from such a country or, if from such a country, has 
been registered with the Competent Authori ty. I hereby certify that this bidder fulfils all requirements in 
this regard and is eligible to be considered. Where applicable, evidence of valid registration by the 
Competent Authority shall be attached]." 
We further declare that the above statement is true & correct. We are aware that if at any stage it is found 
to be incorrect, our response to the tender will be rejected. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Encl: OM dated 23.02.2023, as referred above 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration.
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.9 
FORMAT FOR TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
(This should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
(To be Submitted Separately for each Project) 
 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
From:  (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
(Enter address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
We hereby undertake to certify in line with Clause 23 under the title “Financial Closure” that the 
following details shall be furnished within 12 (twelve) months from Effective Date of the BESPA. 
1.0 Evidence of achieving complete-tie-up of the Project Cost through internal accruals or through a 
Financing Agency. 
2.0 DPR of the Project, detailing out project configuration and proposed commissioning schedule of 
the Project. 
3.0 Bank Guarantee for an amount equal to of the total VGF amount sanctioned for the Project. Failure 
or delay on our part in achieving the above conditions shall constitute sufficient grounds for actions as per 
the provisions of the RfS. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration.
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.10 
DECLARATION BY THE BIDDER FOR THE PROPOSED TECHNOLOGY TIE-UP 
(To be Submitted Separately for each Project) 
 
 
1 Name of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of 
Bidding Consortium 
 
   
3 Contracted Capacity proposed ……MW/……MWh 
4 Technology Proposed to be adopted for the 
Project 
(Brief about the technology 
proposed) 
 
 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ Board 
Resolution/ Declaration.
 
 
 
 
 
Format 7.11 
INTEGRITY PACT 
 
Between 
 
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd (NVVN) (hereinafter referred to as "The 
Authorised Representative") and 
.(hereinafter referred 
to as "The Bidder/Contractor ") 
and 
(hereinafter referred to as 
"JV Partner/ Consortium Members" (if applicable) 
 
Preamble 
The Authorised Representative invites the bids from all eligible bidders and intends to enter into 
Contract for with the successful bidder(s), as per organizational systems and procedures. The 
Authorised Representative values full compliance with all relev ant laws and regulations, and the 
principles of economical use of resources, and of fairness and transparency in its relations with its 
Bidder(s) and/or Contractor(s). 
 
In order to achieve these goals, the Authorised Representative will appoint Independent External 
Monitor(s) (IEM), who will monitor the bidding process and the execution of the Contract for 
compliance with the principles mentioned above. 
 
Section 1   Commitments of the Authorised Representative  
 
1.  The Authorised Representative Commits itself to take all measures necessary to 
prevent corruption and to observe the following principles in this regard:- 
a) No employee of the Authorised Representative, either in person or through family 
members including relatives, will in connection with the bidding for or the execution 
of a Contract, demand or accept a promise for or accept for him/herself or for a third 
person, any material or immaterial benefit to which he/she is not legally entitled to. 
 
b) The Authorised Representative shall, during the bidding process treat all Bidders with 
equity and reason. The Authorised Representative will, in particular, before and 
during the bidding process, provide to all Bidders the same information and will not 
provide to any Bidder confidential/additional information through which the Bidder(s) 
could obtain an advantage in relation to the bidding process or the Contract 
execution. 
c) The Authorised Representative will exclude from the process all known prejudiced 
persons. 
2. If the Authorised Representative obtains information on the conduct of any of its 
employees which is a
 
 
 
 
 
criminal offence under the IPC/PC Act or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, 
the Authorised Representative will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can 
initiate disciplinary actions. 
Section 2 Commitments and Undertakings by the Bidder/Contractor 
 
1. The Bidder/Contractor commits and undertakes to take all measures necessary to 
prevent malpractices & corruption. He commits himself to observe the following principles 
during his participation in the bidding process and during the execution of the contract: 
 
a) The Bidder/ Contractor undertakes not to, directly or through any other person or 
firm offer, promise or give or influence to any employee of the Authorised 
Representative associated with the bidding process or the execution of the contract 
or to any third  person on their behalf any material or immaterial benefit which 
he/she is not legally entitled, in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any 
kind whatsoever during the bidding process or during the execution of the contract. 
b) The Bidder/ Contractor undertake not to enter into any undisclosed agreement or 
understanding, whether formal or informal with other Bidders. This applies in 
particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission 
or non -submission of bids or any other action to restrict competitiveness or to 
introduce cartelization in the bidding process. 
 
c) The Bidder/Contractor undertakes not to commit any offence under the relevant 
Anti-corruption Laws of India; further the Bidder/Contractor will not use improperly, 
any information or document provided by the Authorised Representative as part of 
the busines s relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business 
details, including information contained or transmitted electronically for purposes 
of competition or personal gain and will not pass the information so acquired on to 
others. 
 
d) The Bidder/ Contractor, when presenting his bid, undertakes to disclose any and 
all payments made, or is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any 
other intermediaries in connection with the bidding process and / or award of the 
contract. 
e) The Foreign Bidder/ Contractor, when presenting his bid, undertakes to disclose 
the name and address of agents and representative in India. Further, Indian 
Bidder/ Contractor when presenting his bid, undertakes to disclose the name and 
address of its foreign principals or associates. 
 
2. The Bidder/ Contractor will not instigate and allure third persons/parties to commit 
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such offences. 
 
Section 3 Disqualification from Bidding Process and Exclusion from Future Contracts 
 
1. If the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s), before award or during execution has committed a 
transgression through a violation of any provisions of Section 2 so as to put his reliability 
or credibility as Bidder into question, the Authorised Representative shall be e ntitled to 
disqualify the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) from the bidding process or to terminate the 
contract, if signed on that ground.
 
 
 
 
 
2. If the Bidder/ Contractor has committed a transgression through a violation of Section 2 
such as to put his reliability or credibility into question, the Authorised Representative shall 
be entitled to exclude including blacklist and put on holiday the Bidder/ Contractor for any 
future tenders/contract award process. The imposition and duration of the exclusion will 
be determined by the severity of the transgression. The severity will be determined by the 
Authorised Representative taking into consideration t he full facts and circumstances of 
each case particularly taking into account the number of transgressions, the position of 
the transgressors within the company hierarchy of the Bidder and the amount of the 
damage. The exclusion will be imposed for a period not exceeding two (02) years. 
3. A transgression is considered to have occurred if the Authorised Representative after 
due consideration of the available evidence concludes that no reasonable doubt is 
possible. 
4. The Bidder with its free consent and without any influence agrees and undertakes to 
respect and uphold the Authorised Representative’s absolute rights to resort to and 
impose such exclusion and further accepts and undertakes not to challenge or question 
such exclusion on any ground, including the lack of any hearing before the decision to 
resort to such exclusion is taken. This undertaking is given freely and after obtaining 
independent legal advice. 
5. Subject to full satisfaction of the Authorised Representative, the exclusion of Bidder/ 
Contractor could be revoked by the Authorised Representative if the Bidder/ Contractor 
can prove that he has restored/ recouped the damage caused by him and has installed a 
suitable corruption prevention system in his organization. 
 
Section 4  Compensation for Damages including Forfeiture of Earnest Money Deposit/ 
Security Deposit/ Performance & Advance Bank Guarantees 
1. If the Authorised Representative has disqualified the Bidder/ Contractor from the bidding 
process or has terminated the contract pursuant to Section 3, the Authorised 
Representative shall forfeit the Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security, encash Contract 
Performance Bank Guarantees in addition to excluding the bidder from the future award 
process and terminating the contract. 
 
2. In addition to 1 above, the Authorised Representative shall be entitled to take recourse 
to the relevant provisions of the contract related to Termination of Contract due to 
Contractor's Default. 
Section 5 Previous Transgressions 
 
1. The Bidder swears on oath that no previous transgression impinging on anti -corruption 
principles / any malpractice as mentioned in Section-2 has occurred in the last three years 
immediately before signing of this Integrity Pact, with any other company / an y Public 
Sector Enterprise/ Undertaking in India / any Government Department in India. 
2. If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on previous transgression as mentioned above in 
para 1, Bidder can be disqualified from the bidding process or the contract, if already 
awarded, can be terminated on this ground 
Section 6 Company Code of Conduct 
 
Bidders are also advised to have a company code of conduct (clearly rejecting the use of 
bribes and other unethical behaviour) and a compliance program for the implementation of 
the code of conduct throughout the company. 
 
Section 7 Independent External Monitors (IEM) 
 
1. The Authorised Representative will appoint competent and credible Independent 
 
 
 
 
 
External Monitor for this Pact. The task of the IEMs is to review independently and 
objectively, whether and to 
what extent the parties comply with the obligations under this agreement. 
 
2. The IEMs are not subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties and performs 
his functions neutrally and independently. He shall report to CEO of the Authorised 
Representative or a person authorized by him. 
3. The Bidder/Contractor accepts that the IEMs have the right to access without restriction 
to all Project documentations of the Authorised Representative including that provided by 
the Contractor. The Contractor will also grant the IEMs, upon his request and  
demonstration of a valid interest, unrestricted and unconditional access to his Project 
Documentations. The same is applicable to Subcontractors. The IEMs are under 
contractual obligation to treat the information and documents of the Bidder / Contractor /  
Sub-Contractors/ JV partners/Consortium member with confidentiality. 
 
4. The Authorised Representative will provide to the IEMs sufficient information about all 
meetings among the parties related to the Project provided such meetings could have an 
impact on the contractual relations between the Authorised Representative and the 
Contractor. The parties offer to the IEMs the option to participate in such meetings. 
 
5. As soon as the IEMs notices, or believes to notice, a violation of this agreement, he will so 
inform the Management of the Authorised Representative (CEO of the Authorised 
Representative or a person authorized by him) and request to discontinue or to take 
corrective action, or to take other relevant action. The IEMs can in this regard submit non-
binding recommendations. Beyond this, the IEMs has no right to demand from the parties 
that they act in a specific manner, refrain from action or tolerate action. H owever, 
Independent External Monitor shall give an opportunity to the bidder/contractor to present 
its case before making its recommendations to the Authorised Representative . 
 
6. The IEMs will submit a written report to CEO of the Authorised Representative or a person 
authorized by him within 30 days from the date of reference or intimation to him by the 
Authorised Representative and, should the occasion arise, submit proposals for correcting 
problematic situations. 
7. The Bidder / Contractor accepts that they shall not approach courts while the matter / 
complaint / dispute has been referred to the IEM in terms of this pact and they shall await 
IEM’s decision before approaching any Court. 
8. If the IEMs have reported to CEO of the Authorised Representative or a person authorized 
by him a substantiated suspicion of an offence under relevant IPC/ PC Act, and he has 
not, within reasonable time, taken visible action to proceed against such offence  or 
reported it to the Chief Vigilance Officer, the IEMs may also transmit this information 
directly to the Central Vigilance Commissioner, Government of India. 
9. The word " IEM" will include Singular or Plural. 
 
 
Section 8 Pact Duration 
This Pact comes into force from the date of signing by all the parties. It shall expire for the 
Contractor 12 months after the last payment under the respective Contract, and for all other 
unsuccessful bidders 6 months after the Contract has been awarded. 
Section 9 Miscellaneous Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
1. Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of 
this Pact remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to 
their original intentions. 
2. The actions stipulated in this Integrity Pact are without prejudice to any other legal 
action that may follow in accordance with the provisions of the extant law in force 
relating to any civil or criminal proceedings. 
3. If the Contractor is a JV partnership / Consortium, this agreement must be signed by 
all the partners of JV / Consortium Partners as the case may be. 
The Parties hereby sign this Integrity Pact at .......... on this ........ day of 20 
 
 
 
 
Authorised 
Representative 
Bidder/ Contractor Joint Venture Partner(s)/ 
 Consortium 
member(s) (As 
Applicable) 
 
 
Witness Witness Witness 
 
1. 1. 1. 
 
 
2. 2. 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 107 of 136 
 
Format 7.12 
FORMAT FOR SUBMISSION OF FINANCIAL BID 
(The Covering Letter should be submitted on the Letter Head of the Bidding Company/ Lead 
Member of Consortium) 
 
Ref. No.   Date:   
 
From:   (Insert name and address of Bidding Company/ Lead Member of 
Consortium) 
 
 
Tel.#: 
Fax#: 
E-mail address# 
 
To 
(Enter Address of NVVN) 
 
Sub: Response to RfS No.  dated  for  . 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
 
I/ We,  (Insert Name of the Bidder) enclose herewith the Financial 
Proposal for selection of my/ firm for  number of Project(s) for a cumulative capacity 
of    MW/  MWh in India as Bidder for the above. 
 
 
I/We agree that this offer shall remain valid for a period of 12 months from the due date of 
submission of the response to RfS such further period as may be mutually agreed upon. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ 
Board Resolution/ Declaration. 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 108 of 136 
 
1. There can be only one tariff for all the projects applied for. If the Bidder quotes two 
tariffs or combination thereof for the projects, then the bid shall be considered as non- 
responsive. 
 
2. If the Bidder submits the financial bid not in line with the instructions mentioned therein, 
then the bid shall be considered as non-responsive. 
 
3. Tariff requirement shall be quoted as a fixed amount in Indian Rupees only. Conditional 
proposal shall be summarily rejected. 
 
4. In the event of any discrepancy between the values entered in figures and in words, 
the values entered in words shall be considered. 
 
5. Tariff should be in Indian Rupee per kWh (with two decimal places allowed).
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 109 of 136 
 
Format 7.13 
PRELIMINARY ESTIMATE OF COST OF THE PROJECT 
 
Project Capacity: MW/….MWh 
Location: ………………………. 
 
Bidder may use any format to provide the break-up. 
Dated the day of , 20…. 
Thanking you, 
We remain, 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Name, Designation, Seal and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney/ 
Board Resolution/ Declaration.
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 110 of 136 
 
Format 7.14 
CONFIRMATION OF BGs THROUGH STRUCTURED FINANCIAL MESSAGING SYSTEM 
(SFMS)/ SWIFT 
 
 
While issuing the physical BGs, the Bidder’s Bank shall also send electronic message 
through secure SFMS (in case of BGs issued from within India) or SWIFT (in case of BGs 
issued from outside India) to NVVN’s Beneficiary Bank whose details are provided herein 
below: 
 
 
(i) Bank Name: ICICI Bank Limited 
(ii) Branch: CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
(iii) Bank Address: 9A, PHELPS BUILDING, INNER CIRCLE, NEW DELHI-110001 
(iv) IFSC Code: ICIC0000007 
 
 
BG issuing/amending bank must send the BG advice in the form of message format via 
SFMS (Structured Financial Messaging System) as provided by RBI. The format of the 
message for confirmation of the BG shall be as below: 
 
 
BG advising message: IFN 760COV/ IFN 767COV via SFMS 
 
 
Field Number: Particulars (to be mentioned in Row 1) 
 
 
7037: NVVNBG8910 (unique identifier)
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 111 of 136 
 
Annexure - A 
TECHNICAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS TO BE FOLLOWED FOR BATTERY 
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS 
1. Codes and Standards 
The BESS shall comply with the following Codes and Standards or equivalent Indian 
Standards, as applicable. 
 
Standard/ Code (or 
equivalent Indian 
Standards) 
 
Description Certification 
Requirements 
IEC 62485-2 Safety requirements for secondary batteries and 
battery installations - to meet requirements on 
safety aspects associated with the erection, use, 
inspection, maintenance and disposal: 
Applicable for Lead Acid and NiCd / NiMH 
batteries 
Applicable only for 
Lead Acid and 
NiCd/NiMH batteries 
UL 1642 or UL 1973, 
Appendix E (cell) or 
IEC 62619 (cell) + 
IEC 63056 (cell) 
Secondary cells and batteries containing alkaline 
or other non -acid electrolytes - Safety 
requirements for secondary lithium cells and 
batteries, for use in industrial applications 
Required for Cell 
UL 1973 (battery) or 
(IEC 62619 (battery) 
+ IEC 63056 
(battery)) 
Batteries for Use in Stationary, Vehicle Auxiliary 
Power and Light Electric Rail (LER) Applications 
/ Secondary cells and batteries containing 
alkaline or other non -acid electrolytes - Safety 
requirements for secondary lithium cells and 
batteries, for use in industrial applications 
Either UL 1642 or 
UL1973 or (IEC 62619 
+ IEC 63056) for the 
Battery level 
IEC 62281 / UN 38.3 Safety of primary and secondary lithium cells and 
batteries during transport: Applicable for storage 
systems using Lithium Ion chemistries 
Required for both 
Battery and Cell. 
IEC 61850/ DNP3 Communications  networks  and  management 
systems. (BESS control system communication) 
 
UL 9540 or (IEC TS 
62933-5-1 + IEC 
62933-5-2) 
Electrical energy storage (EES) systems - Part 5- 
1: Safety considerations for grid -integrated EES 
systems – General specification / Standard for 
Energy Storage Systems and Equipment 
Either UL9540 or (IEC 
62933-5-1 + IEC 
62933-5-2) is required 
for BESS system level 
IEC 62933-2-1 Electrical energy storage (EES) systems - Part 2- 
1: Unit Parameters and testing methods - 
General Specification 
Tests for Class B 
applications: 
1. Duty Cycle Round 
Trip Efficiency Test 
2. Equipment and 
Basic Function Test 
3. Available energy 
Test 
4. Insulation test 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 112 of 136 
 
 
Power Conditioning Unit Standards for BESS 
IEC 62477-1 Safety requirements for power electronic converter systems and 
equipment - Part 1: General 
 
IEC 62477-2 
Safety requirements for power electronic converter systems and 
equipment - Part 2: Power electronic converters from 1 000 V AC or 1 500 
V DC up to 36 kV AC or 54 kV DC 
IEC 61000-6-2 Ed. 2 Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-2: Generic standards - 
Immunity standard for industrial environments 
IEC 61000-6-4 Ed. 
2.1 
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6-4: Generic standards - 
Emission standard for industrial environments 
IEC 62116 Ed. 2 Utility-interconnected photovoltaic inverters - Test procedure of islanding 
prevention measures 
IEC 60068-2- 
1:2007 Environmental testing - Part 2-1: Tests - Test A: Cold 
IEC 60068-2- 
2:2007 Environmental testing - Part 2-2: Tests - Test B: Dry heat 
IEC 60068-2- 
14:2009 Environmental testing - Part 2-14: Tests - Test N: Change of temperature 
IEC 60068-2- 
30:2005 
Environmental testing - Part 2-30: Tests - Test Db: Damp heat, cyclic (12 
h + 12 h cycle) 
 
The Battery Energy Storage System: 
a) shall follow the relevant CEA/CEIG / State Electrical Inspectorate Standards 
and CERC/SERC Regulations 
b) shall be responsible for complying with the “First Time Energization” 
procedure available at Grid India website as per the IEGC Regulations 
2023 (If applicable). 
c) Comply with the grid-interfacing requirements as mentioned in following standards: 
i. IEEE Std. 2800 -2022: IEEE Standard for Interconnection and 
Interoperability of Inverter -Based Resources (IBRs) Interconnecting 
with Associated Transmission Electric Power Systems 
ii. IEC TS 62786 -1: Distributed energy resources connection with the 
grid – Part 1: General requirements 
iii. IEC TS 62786-3: Distributed energy Resources connection with the 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 113 of 136 
 
grid: Part 3, Additional requirements for stationary battery energy 
storage systems 
Further, CEA Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid, Regulations 2007, Part -1 
(General), Standards and Codes for Practice, mentions the following: 
“ 
(2) The equipment including overhead lines and cables shall comply with the 
relevant Indian Standards, British Standard (BS), or International 
Electrotechnical Commission 
(IEC) Standard, or American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or any other equivalent 
International Standard: 
Provided that whenever an International Standard or International Electro 
technical Commission Standard is followed, necessary corrections or 
modifications shall be made for nominal system frequency, nominal system 
voltage, ambient temperature, humidity and other conditions prevailing in India 
before actual adoption of the said Standard. 
(3) The effects of wind, storms, floods, lightening, elevation, temperature 
extremes, icing, contamination, pollution and earthquakes must be considered 
in the design and 
operation of the connected facilities.” 
The BESS, therefore, shall be designed keeping in view the ambient temperature and 
weather conditions prevailing at site i.e. The BESS shall be able to deliver rated 
performance at the extreme temperature and weather conditions at site where it is 
deployed. 
In this regard, the procedure notified by CEA on 8th April 2024 for assessment of 
the “Design Temperature for RE Plants in compliance to CEA (Technical Standards 
for Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations” shall be followed. Same is available at: 
https://cea.nic.in/whats-new/?lang=en 
 
2. System Testing and Commissioning 
The BESS shall be commissioned as per commissioning criteria and procedures specified by 
the CEA. 
3. Identification and Traceability 
Cells/Racks/Packs Assembly shall meet seismic requirement for the plant location of the 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 114 of 136 
 
BESS. Labelling of cells/batteries shall include manufacturer’s name, cell type, name -plate 
rating, date of manufacture and date of expiry of parts and labour warranty. 
4. Other Sub-systems/Components 
Other subsystems/components used in the BESS must also conform to the relevant 
international/national Standards for Electrical Safety for ensuring Expected Service Life and 
Weather Resistance. 
5. Fire Protection 
The BESSD shall design and install a fire protection system that conforms to national and local 
codes. The fire protection system design and associated alarms shall take into account that 
the BESS will be unattended at most times. For high energy density technologies, the BESSD 
shall also obtain thermal runaway characterization of the battery storage systems. As Battery 
Energy Storage System is prone to fire hazard, the BESSD shall provide suitable means such 
as fire barrier between switchyard and BESS to a void fire to spread from BESS to Yard 
equipment. The safety of the equipment / personnel related to BESS operations will be in the 
scope of the BESSD. CSPDCL will in no way be responsible for any loss / damage due to any 
fire accidents. Fire Hydrant system  with approval from Fire Force Department, Chhattisgarh 
shall be installed in the BESS area. The BESS container area shall be fitted with High mast 
Thermal & Surveillance Camera and streaming of the same shall be provided at Control Room 
of …………………….Sub Station in BESSD’s scope.
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No.  dated:  Page 115 of 136 
 
6. Authorized Test Centres 
 
Batteries/ Power Conditioning Units deployed in the power plants must have valid test 
certificates for their qualification as per above specified IEC/ BIS Standards by one of the ILAC 
member signatory accredited laboratories. In case of module types/ BESS/ equipment for 
which such Test facilities may not exist in India at present, test certificates from reputed ILAC 
Member body accredited Labs abroad will be acceptable. 
 
7. Warranty 
BESSD shall procure performance guarantees from the OEM to ensure minimum performance 
levels for predefined application(s) as per the terms of the RfS. The Warranty shall clearly 
indicate life expectancy given discharge profiles provided for the application. 
8. Performance Monitoring 
 
As part of the performance monitoring, the following shall be carried out: 
a) The BESSD must install necessary equipment to continuously measure BESS operating 
parameters (including but not limited to voltage, current, ambient conditions etc.) as well 
as energy input into and energy output from the BESS along with Metering arrangeme nt 
in accordance with extant regulations. They will be required to submit this data to CSPDCL 
or SLDC on line and/or through a report on regular basis every month for the entire duration 
of contract. 
b) The BESSD shall provide access to the CSPDCL/MNRE/MOP/CEIG/CERC/CSERC or 
their authorized representatives for installing any additional monitoring equipment to 
facilitate on-line transfer of data. 
c) All data shall be made available as mentioned above for the entire duration/ extended 
duration of the Contract. 
d) The plant SCADA should be OPC version 2.0a (or a later version including OPC UA) 
compliant and implement appropriate OPC -DA server as per the specification of OPC 
Foundation. All data should be accessible through this OPC server for providing real time 
online data (BESS parameters) to the CSPDCL/SLDC/MNRE. This time series data shall 
be available from the Project SCADA system to facilitate monitoring and should include 
among others as stated before, below parameters to facilitate daily, monthly and annual 
Report for performance monitoring. 
e) Web-based monitoring should be available at Chhattisgarh SLDC, which should not be 
machine dependent. The web -based monitoring should provide the same screens as 
available in the plant. Also, it should be possible to download reports from a remote web-
client in PDF or Excel format. 
 
9. Other necessary criteria 
 
i. Central Electricity Authority, Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid, 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013 and 2019 mention connectivity standards 
applicable to the wind generating stations, generating stations using inverters, wind 
- solar photo voltaic hybrid systems and energy storage systems. BESS, being an 
inverter based power system element, shall also comply to the requirements 
specified for other generating stations using inverters. 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No.  dated:  Page 116 of 136 
 
Some of the requirements are indicated below and following shall be added 
separately in the “Technical and Regulatory Requirements to be followed by 
Battery Energy Storage System”: 
 
d) BESS shall be capacity of operating in the frequency range of 47.5 Hz to 52 
Hz and be able to deliver rated output in the frequency range of 49.5 Hz to 
50.5 Hz. 
e) Low / High Voltage Ride Through (LVRT/ HVRT): BESS shall be capacity 
of operating when voltage at the inter connection point on any or all phases 
dips/rises to the high or low levels. The levels applicable for wind/solar 
inverter-based generation may be referred as available in Central Electricity 
Authority (Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations. 
f) Dynamic Reactive Power Support / Voltage Control - BESS shall have 
the feature to detect and regulate the voltage of interconnection point as per 
the specified capabilityi.e. The BESS shall be capable of supplying 
dynamically varying reactive power support at least up to the limits specified 
for wind/solar generation sources (inverter-based) in the Central Electricity 
Authority (Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations. 
The response time of the BESS shall not exceed the value specified in 
relevant standards or grid codes. 
g) Primary Frequency Control – The BESS shall have provisions for Primary 
Frequency Control with a droop which can be set as per system requirement 
between the range specified for wind/solar generation sources (inverter -
based) in the Central Electricity Autho rity (Technical Standards for 
Connectivity to the Grid) Regulations. BESS to be implemented shall have 
provisions for Primary frequency control with a droop which can be set as 
per system requirement between 1 -3 percent. The BESS performs 
regulations in one or several pre-defined ways (e.g. regulating its own output 
power according to the orders given by SCADA system) to achieve an active 
power balance between generation and demand to maintain the power 
system frequency within a reasonable range. 
h) BESS shall be capable to receive active power/reactive power set point from 
load dispatch centers i.e. SLDC/RLDC. 
i) The BESS shall have the capability for synthetic inertia, black start and 
intentional island control capability to extend start -up of a blackout system 
or to operate independently after formation of an island. 
j) BESS shall operate in a manner to promote the power system reliability and 
improve the power quality. When power quality problems, such as voltage 
dip, flicker, unsatisfactory power factor, etc., occur in power system, the 
BESS could eliminate these problems by flexible active and reactive power output 
in this function. 
k) The BESS shall provide reliable protection and not be limited to as an over 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No.  dated:  Page 117 of 136 
 
voltage/under-voltage protection, over current protection, low -
temperature/over- temperature protection of battery, DC insulation 
monitoring, etc. 
l) BESS is required to have the following basic functions : 
i) Monitoring: Monitor operational parameters, equipment status and 
communication status, alarm and faults of main equipment and BESS 
system, etc. 
ii) Information exchange:  Receive and process information with SLDC 
/RLDC/NLDC including operation parameters, switching information, various 
alarms and alerts, protective action signals, control information, etc. 
iii) Control: Including control mode and parameter setting with 
SLDC/RLDC/NLDC. 
m)  BESS shall have capability to operate in AGC. The details regarding AGC signals 
required by not limited to, are given (the conventional
 power plant signal link) at the link, 
https://posoco.in/download/detailed-signal-list-for-connecting-generators-under- 
agc/?wpdml=29546. 
BESS shall be able to operate in AGC and be able to comply with the requirements 
desired by system operators. Some of the BESS signal list for implementation of AGC 
can be like below (list is indicative only): 
I. Maximum MW permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
II. Minimum MW permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
III. Ramp rate up permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
IV. Ramp rate down permissible (dynamic or user entry) 
V. Actual MW 
VI. Actual MVAR 
VII. Auxiliary Consumption MW 
VIII. Scheduled MW (dynamic or user entry) 
IX. BESS Temperature (for monitoring and correlation) 
X. Ambient Temperature (for monitoring and correlation) 
XI. Cycle limits (0-100%) per day (user entry) 
XII. Circuit breaker status 
XIII. Local/Remote status 
XIV. AGC Set Point MW from NLDC to BESS 
XV. Voltage (kV) at grid level 
XVI. Voltage (V) at BESS LV side 
 
n) The static information like detailed write-up on present operation methodology of BESS, 
forbidden zones, number of cycle limits, Auxiliary consumption details, capability 
curve, simulation models (RMS/PSCAD) along with description or any specific 
information about B ESS shall also be furnished as and when required by 
SLDC/RLDC/NLDC. 
o) In addition to the above, the Project Capacity shall also respond to secondary and 
Tertiary control signals from the Nodal Agency for providing SRAS-UP, TRAS-UP and 
SRAS-Down, TRAS-UP services as defined under the Central Electricity Regulatory 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No.  dated:  Page 118 of 136 
 
Commission (Ancillary Services) Regulations, 2021. The performance monitoring and 
incentives, if any for the SRAS/TRAS shall be in accordance with the extant Regulations 
for Ancillary Services. 
p) BESS will ensure the compliance of requirements mentioned in procedure of First Time 
Charging (FTC) as applicable for other power system elements. The consolidated FTC 
procedure including the requirements for BESS is available in public domain at 
https://posoco.in/wp- 
content/uploads/2021/04/Procedure_for_Integration_of_Power_System_Elements.pdf 
q) The Developer shall take due cognizance of the provisions of the Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017 and subsequent amendments or notifications 
issued thereunder by the Government of India. The Ministry of Power, under the said 
Order, has notified an itemized list (Annexure -I) specifying Minimum Local Content 
(MLC) requirements for various equipment categories in the power sector. Accordingly, 
the Developer shall ensure adherence to these provisions, to the extent applicable, during 
installation, commissioning, and operation of the Battery Energy Storage System 
(BESS) project being implemented under the Power System Development Fund (PSDF) 
Scheme. Compliance or exemption, as may be directed by the Ministry of Power in this 
regard, shall be duly observed as a part of the project implementation obligations. 
 
 
10. Safe Disposal of unit Batteries from the BESS 
The Developer will comply with the requirements under Hazardous & other Waste 
(Management and Trans boundary Movement) Rules, 2016, as amended from time to 
time, and Battery Waste Management Rules, 2022 on 24th August, 2022, as amended 
from time to time, as applicable. The BESSD shall ensure that all Unit Battery modules 
from the plant after their ‘end of life’ (when they become defective/ non -operational/ 
non-repairable) are disposed in accordance with the “e -waste (Management and 
Handling) Rules, 2016 and Battery Waste Management Rules, 2022” notified by the 
Government and as revised and amended from time to time and Battery Waste 
Management Rules, as and when notified by the Government of India.
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 119 of 136 
 
Annexure-B 
CHECK LIST FOR FINANCIAL CLOSURE 
(To be signed by the Authorized signatory of the BESSD) 
(RfS No. dated ) 
Last Date for submission of documents related to Financial Closure –   
(9 months from Effective Date of BESPA) 
 
Project Company Name    
Project ID:-  
LOA No. -  .  Dtd. -  
Effective Date of BESPA -    
Scheduled Commissioning Date: -   
1.0 Financial Closure - (Clause 23 of the RfS, including subsequent amendments &  
clarifications) 
 
Details Presently given in BESPA 
Location  
 
Technology 
 
Certificate from all 
financial institutions 
In case of tie up through Bank / Financial Institutions: - 
 Document from Bank / Financial Institutions certifying 
 arrangement of necessary funds by way of sanction of Loan (to be 
 enclosed as Annexure-I). 
 In case of Internal Resources: - 
 Copy of Board Resolution, Audited/Certified Balance sheet, Profit 
 & Loss Account Statement, Bank Statement and Cash Flow 
 Statement in support of availability of Internal resources of the 
 Project Company and of the Company other than Project 
 Company (in case the required funding will be raised from 
 Company other than Project Company) (to be enclosed as 
 Annexure-I). 
 Performa for the cases where funding will be from Company other 
 than Project Company is at ‘A-1’. 
Note:- 
(i) Copy of Final Detailed Project Report (DPR) is to be enclosed as Annexure – II A. 
2.0 Undertaking by the Project Company that all Consents, clearances and permits required 
for implementing the Project as per the terms of BESPA have been obtained is to be 
enclosed as Annexure – II B 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 120 of 136 
 
3.0 Copy of Agreement/ MOU entered into / Purchase Order with acceptance, for the supply 
of Plants and Equipment (to be enclosed as Annexure-III) 
4.0 Technical Parameters of the Project (Clause 39 of the RfS) 
 
3.0.1 Certificate from Project Company that Technical specifications and directives given in 
Annexure-A of the RfS will be adhered to (to be enclosed as Annexure-IV A) 
3.0.2 Proposed Project configuration as part of DPR of the Project (to be enclosed as 
Annexure-IV B) 
 
5.0 Ownership of the BESSD: Latest Shareholding Pattern of the Project Company (including 
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCDs), Compulsorily Convertible Preferential 
Shares (CCPS) of the Project Company certified by Chartered Accountant (to be enclosed 
as Annexure V A) 
 
Shareholding pattern is not required to be submitted by a Listed Company. 
 
Note: Shareholding pattern is to be submitted by the Project Company, as and when 
requisitioned by the Procurer. 
 
6.0 The above checklist is to facilitate financial closure of projects. For any interpretation the 
respective provision of RfS / BESPA shall prevail.
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 121 of 136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO 
BIDDERS FOR e-TENDERING 
AND REVERSE AUCTION 
Annexure - C
The Special Instructions (for e-Tendering) supplement ‘Instruction to Bidders’, as given in 
these Tender Documents. Submission of Online Bids is mandatory for this Tender. 
E-Tendering is a new methodology for conducting Public Procurement in a transparent and 
secured manner. Now, the Government of India has made e-tendering mandatory. 
Suppliers/ Vendors will be the biggest beneficiaries of this new system of procurement. For 
conducting electronic tendering, NVVN has decided to use the portal https://www.bharat- 
electronictender.com through ISN ElectronicTender Services Private Limited (referred as 
ISN- ETS). This portal is based on the world’s most ‘secure’ and ‘user friendly’ software from 
ElectronicTender®. A portal built using ElectronicTender’s software is also referred to as 
ElectronicTender System® (ETS). 
Benefits to Suppliers are outlined on the Homepage of the portal. 
Instructions 
Note on ETS BIDDING FEE: 
In order to participate in this Tender, each Bidder would have to deposit towards ‘Application 
Charges for Bidders’ an amount with the Service Provider of Bharat-Electronic Tender Portal 
[ETS], ie ISN Electronic Tender Services Pvt Ltd (ISN-ETS), as per instructions given on 
ETS. In ETS, this amount is referred to as ‘ETS Bidding-Deposit Conditionally Refundable 
(ETS BIDDING FEE)’  
The amount can be paid online through the following methods: 
1. SBI Payment Gateway facility available on ETS portal 
2. NEFT/RTGS to the following account: 
Beneficiary Name: ISN Electronic Tender Services Pvt. Ltd. 
A/C No.: 661405601452 
Branch: ICICI Bank, Central Arcade, DLF City, Phase-II, Gurgaon - 122002 
IFSC Code: ICIC0006614 
Account Type: Current Account 
On the ‘Date of Bid Finalization’, ie the date on which written communication is received by 
the Service/ Portal Provider of ETS from the Buyer Organization/ Auctioneer (ie NVVN LTD.) 
about the successful/ unsuccessful Bidders, ETS BIDDING FEE amount corresponding to the 
quantity allocated/ awarded to that successful Bidder will be retained by the Service/ Portal 
provider of ETS and treated as ‘ETS Bidding-Fee’ (including GST), and the balance amount 
(without any interest) will be refunded by Service/ Portal Provider.
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 122 of 136 
 
Similarly, for unsuccessful Bidders, the full ETS BIDDING FEE (without any interest) will be 
refunded within Seven (7) working days from the date of receipt of written communication by 
the Service/ Portal Provider of ETS from the Buyer Organization/ Auctioneer (ie NVVN 
LTD.). 
Invoicing & TDS deduction after the final outcome of the bidding process/ e-Auction: 
Case-1 (Unsuccessful Bidder): In case the bidder does not win any capacity, the full 
BIDDING FEE amount shall be refunded and therefore no invoice will be given and will not 
be subject to TDS. 
Case-2 (Successful Bidder): In case the bidder wins a particular capacity, an invoice shall be 
generated. The applicable TDS will be calculated on the invoice amount and ETS portal 
Service Provider shall then deposit this TDS amount on behalf of the bidder and share a 
copy of the deposit challan. Subsequently, the remaining BIDDING FEE balance shall be 
refunded, if any. 
Note: The bidder must email a copy of the transaction summary and TAN Number 
to support@isn-ets.com with the "Subject: ’Bidders Name’ - Payment for NVVN Ltd Tender 
ETS- FEE" 
Tender Bidding Methodology: Sealed Bid System 
- Single Stage Two Envelope 
 
 
Auction 
The sealed bid system would be followed by an ‘e-ReverseAuction’ 
Broad Outline of Activities from Bidder’s Perspective: 
1. Procure a Class-III Digital Signing Certificate (DSC) 
2. Register on ElectronicTender System® (ETS) 
3. Create Marketing Authorities (MAs), Users and assign roles on ETS. It is mandatory 
to create at least one MA. 
4. View Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) on ETS 
5. For this tender -- Assign Tender Search Code (TSC) to an MA 
6. Download Official Copy of Tender Documents from ETS. Note: Official copy of 
Tender Documents is distinct from downloading ‘Free Copy of Tender Documents’. To 
participate in a tender, it is mandatory to procure official copy of Tender Documents for that 
tender. 
7. Clarification to Tender Documents on ETS 
– Query to NVVN Limited ( optional) 
– View response to queries posted by NVVN Limited 
8. Bid-Submission on ETS 
9. Post-TOE Clarification on ETS (Optional)
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 123 of 136 
 
– Respond to NVVN Post-TOE queries 
10. Participate in e-Reverse Auction on ETS 
For participating in this tender online, the following instructions are to be read carefully. 
These instructions are supplemented with more detailed guidelines on the relevant screens 
of the ETS. 
Digital Certificates 
For integrity of data and authenticity/ non-repudiation of electronic records, and to be 
compliant with IT Act 2000, it is necessary for each user to have a Digital Certificate (DC). 
also referred to as Digital Signature Certificate (DSC), of Class-III, issued by a Certifying 
Authority (CA) licensed by Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA) [refer 
http://www.cca.gov.in]. 
Registration 
To use the ElectronicTender® portal https://www.bharat-electronictender.com, vendors need 
to register on the portal. Registration of each organization is to be done by one of its senior 
persons who will be the main person coordinating for the e-tendering activities. In ETS 
terminology, this person will be referred to as the Super User (SU) of that organization. For 
further details, please visit the website/portal, and click on the ‘Supplier Organization’ link 
under ‘Registration’ (on the Home Page), and follow further instructions as given on the site, 
and special instruction given in the RFP in this regard. Pay Annual Registration Fee as 
applicable. 
After successful submission of Registration details and Annual Registration Fee, please 
contact ISN-ETS/ ETS Helpdesk (as given below), to get your registration 
accepted/activated 
Important Note: To minimize teething problems during the use of ETS (including the 
Registration process), it is recommended that the user should peruse the instructions given 
under ‘ETS User- Guidance Center’ located on ETS Home Page, including instructions for 
timely registration on ETS. The instructions relating to ‘Essential Computer Security Settings 
for Use of ETS’ and ‘Important Functionality Checks’ should be especially taken into 
cognizance. 
Please note that even after acceptance of your registration by the Service Provider, to 
respond to a tender you will also require time to complete activities related to your 
organization, such as creation of users, assigning roles to them, etc. 
ISN-ETS/ ETS Helpdesk 
Telephone/ Mobile Customer Support: +91-124 - 4229071, 4229072 
[Between 9:00 am to 6:00 pm IST on all working days] 
E-mail ID support@isn-ets.com 
[Please mark CC: support@electronictender.com]
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 124 of 136 
 
Some Bidding related Information for this Tender (Sealed Bid) 
The entire bid-submission would be online on ETS (unless specified for Offline 
Submissions). Broad outline of submissions are as follows: 
 Online Payment of Applicable ETS Bidding-Fee (if applicable) 
Note: Failure to pay this amount will result in rejection of the bid. 
 Submission of Bid-Parts/ Envelopes 
 Prequalification Application 
 Technical-Part 
 Financial-Part 
 Submission of information pertaining Bid Security/ Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) 
 Submission of digitally signed copy of RfS, PPA & Addendums 
Offline Submissions: 
The bidder is requested to submit the following documents offline to the under mentioned 
address before the start of Public Online Tender Opening Event in a Sealed Envelope. 
The envelope shall bear (the project name), the tender number and the words ‘DO NOT 
OPEN BEFORE’ (due date & time). 
1. Original copy of the Bid Security in the form of a Bank Guarantee. 
2. DD/ Bankers cheque of Rs …… drawn in favour of , NVVN Limited, payable at New 
Delhi against payment of Bid Processing Fee. 
Note: The Bidder should also upload the scanned copies of all the above-mentioned original 
documents as Bid-Annexures during Online Bid-Submission. 
Special Note on Security and Transparency of Bids 
Security related functionality has been rigorously implemented in ETS in a multi-dimensional 
manner. Starting with 'Acceptance of Registration by the Service Provider', provision for 
security has been made at various stages in ElectronicTender's software. Specifically, for 
Bid Submission some security related aspects are outlined below: 
As part of the ElectronicEncrypter® functionality, the contents of both the ‘ElectronicForms®’ 
and the ‘Main-Bid’ are securely encrypted using a Pass-Phrase created by the Bidder 
himself. Unlike a ‘password’, a Pass-Phrase can be a multi-word sentence with spaces 
between words (eg I love this World). A Pass-Phrase is easier to remember, and more 
difficult to break. It is mandatory that a separate Pass-Phrase be created for each Bid-Part. 
This method of bid-encryption does not have the security and data-integrity related 
vulnerabilities which are inherent in e-tendering systems which use Public-Key of the 
specified officer of a Buyer organization for bid-encryption. Bid-encryption in ETS is such 
that the Bids cannot be decrypted before the Public Online Tender Opening Event (TOE), 
even if there is connivance between the concerned tender-opening officers of the Buyer 
organization and the personnel of e-tendering service provider. This is an

 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 Dated 
01.12.2025 
Page 125 of 136 
 
additional reason why a Bidder using ETS need not take the risk of trying to submit his bid 
near the ‘Last Date and Time o Receipt of Bids’, and can comfortably do so well in advance. 
CAUTION: All bidders must fill ElectronicForms® for each bid-part sincerely and carefully, 
and avoid any discrepancy between information given in the ElectronicForms® and the 
corresponding Main-Bid. For transparency, the information submitted by a bidder in the 
ElectronicForms® is made available to other bidders during the Online Public TOE. If it is 
found during the Online Public TOE that a bidder has not filled in the complete information in 
the ElectronicForms®, the TOE officer may make available for downloading the 
corresponding Main- Bid of that bidder at the risk of the bidder. If variation is noted between 
the information contained in the ElectronicForms® and the ‘Main-Bid’, the contents of the 
ElectronicForms® shall prevail. 
Typically, ‘Pass-Phrase’ of the Bid-Part to be opened during a particular Public Online 
Tender Opening Event (TOE) is furnished online by each bidder during the TOE itself, when 
demanded by the concerned Tender Opening Officer. 
(Optional Text depending upon the decision of the NVVN Limited): 
Additionally, the bidder shall make sure that the Pass-Phrase to decrypt the relevant Bid- 
Part is submitted to NVVN Limited Name in a sealed envelope before the start date and time 
of the Tender Opening Event (TOE). 
There is an additional protection with SSL Encryption during transit from the client-end 
computer of a Supplier organization to the e-tendering server/ portal. 
Some Bidding related Information for this Tender (e-ReverseAuction) 
e-ReverseAuction would be conducted after the opening of the Prequalification/ Financial- 
Part. The following would be parameters for e-ReverseAuction: 
SNo Parameter Value 
1 Date and Time of Reverse-Auction Bidding 
Event Will be intimated to the responsive 
bidders later. 
2 Duration of Reverse-Auction Bidding Event 120 Minutes 
3 Automatic extension of the ‘Reverse- 
Auction Closing Time’, if last bid received is 
within a ‘Pre-defined Time-Duration’ 
before the ‘Reverse-Auction Closing Time’  Yes 
3.1 Pre-defined Time-Duration 10 Minutes 
3.2 Automatic extension Time-Duration 10 Minutes 
4 Criteria of Bid-Acceptance Bidder can go on decreasing his own bid value without 
taking into cognizance the 
starting point or Rank 1 bid.
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 Dated 
01.12.2025 
Page 126 of 136 
 
5 Entity – Start-Price VCNG quoted by the bidders in financial 
bid ( Second Envelope) 
6 Minimum Bid-Decrement 0.01 Rupees 
Any special instructions to be inserted by the Buyer Organization Name for that particular 
Auction: 
(Example-1): Only ‘n-1’ lowest bidders from the Financial-Bid opening round will be invited 
for e- Reverse Auction …; Reserve Price for the auction will be the lowest price obtained in 
the financial-bid round, …any ‘Special Processes incorporated in this e-ReverseAuction’. 
(Example-2): Similarly, Buyer organization to outline here ‘specific rules and criteria’ relevant 
to this particular e-ReverseAuction. If the e-ReverseAuction involves special processes 
(such as Categorization of bidders, Loading related to Price Preference, VGF, etc), it is 
recommended that the Buyer organization gives in Tender Documents here an example of 
the use of rules and criteria. …. etc. 
 
 
Other Instructions 
For further instructions, the vendor should visit the homepage of the portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com, and go to the User-Guidance Center 
The help information provided through ‘ETS User-Guidance Center’ is available in three 
categories – Users intending to Register / First-Time Users, Logged-in users of Buyer 
organizations, and Logged-in users of Supplier organizations. Various links (including links 
for User Manuals) are provided under each of the three categories. 
 
 
Important Note: It is strongly recommended that all authorized users of Supplier 
organizations should thoroughly peruse the information provided under the relevant links, 
and take appropriate action. This will prevent hiccups, and minimize teething problems 
during the use of ETS. 
SEVEN CRITICAL DO’S AND DON’TS FOR BIDDERS 
Specifically, for Supplier organizations, the following 'SEVEN KEY INSTRUCTIONS for 
BIDDERS' must be assiduously adhered to: 
1. Obtain individual Digital Signing Certificate (DSC or DC) of Class-III, well in advance 
of your first tender submission deadline on ETS 
2. Register your organization on ETS well in advance of the important deadlines for your 
first tender on ETS viz ‘Date and Time of Closure of Procurement of Tender Documents’ and 
‘Last Date and Time of Receipt of Bids’. Please note that even after acceptance of your 
registration by the Service Provider, to respond to a tender you will also require time to 
complete activities related to your organization, such as creation of -- Marketing Authority 
(MA) [ie a department within the Supplier/ Bidder Organization responsible for responding to 
tenders], users for one or more such MAs, assigning roles to them, etc. It is mandatory to 
create at least one MA. This unique feature of creating an MA enhances security and 
accountability within the Supplier/ Bidder Organization.
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 127 of 136 
 
3. Get your organization's concerned executives trained on ETS well in advance of your 
first tender submission deadline on ETS 
4. For responding to any particular tender, the tender (ie its Tender Search Code or 
TSC) has to be assigned to an MA. Further, an ‘Official Copy of Tender Documents’ should 
be procured/ downloaded before the expiry of Date and Time of Closure of Procurement of 
Tender 
Documents. Note: Official copy of Tender Documents is distinct from downloading ‘Free 
Copy of Tender Documents’. Official copy of Tender Documents is the equivalent of 
procuring physical copy of Tender Documents with official receipt in the paper-based manual 
tendering system. 
5. Submit your bids well in advance of tender submission deadline on ETS (There could 
be last minute problems due to internet timeout, breakdown, et al) 
Note: Bid-submission in ETS can consist of submission of multiple bid-components, which 
vary depending upon the situation and requirements of the Buyer. Successful receipt of a bid 
in an e-tendering scenario takes place if all the required bid-components are successfully 
‘received and validated’ in the system (ETS) within the scheduled date and time of closure of 
bidding (On some ETS screens, this is also referred to as ‘Last Date and Time of Receipt of 
Bids’). ETS/ Service Provider is not responsible for what happens at an end-user’s end, or 
while a submission made by an end-user is in transit, until the submission is successfully 
‘received and validated’ in ETS. When a bid-component receipt and validation is successful, 
it is recorded in the ETS Audit Trail Report, which is generated by ETS. In case of any 
uncertainty, the application audit trail generated by ETS (ETS Audit Trail Report) shall be the 
final record/evidence for reference regarding the ‘successful bid receipt’. 
6. It is the responsibility of each bidder to remember and securely store the Pass - 
Phrase for each Bid-Part submitted by that bidder. In the event of a bidder forgetting the 
Pass-Phrase before the expiry of deadline for Bid -Submission, facility is provided t o the 
bidder to ‘Annul Previous Submission’ from the Bid-Submission Overview page and start 
afresh with new Pass- Phrase(s) 
7. ETS will make your bid available for opening during the Online Public Tender 
Opening Event (TOE) ‘ONLY IF’ your ‘Status pertaining Overall Bid -Submission’ is 
‘Complete’. For your record, you can generate and save a copy of ‘Final Submission 
Receipt’. This receipt can be generated from 'Bid-Submission Overview Page' only if the 
‘Status pertaining overall Bid-Submission’ is ‘Complete’. 
NOTE: 
While the first three instructions mentioned above are especially relevant to first-time users 
of ETS, the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh instructions are relevant at all times. 
Additional DO’S AND DON’TS FOR BIDDERS Participating in e-ReverseAuction 
1. Get your organization's concerned executives trained for e-ReverseAuction related 
processes on ETS well in advance of the start of e-ReverseAuction. 
2. For responding to any particular e-ReverseAuction, the e-ReverseAuction (ie its 
Reverse Auction Search Code or RASC) has to be assigned to an MA.
 
 
 
 
 RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in India with VGF under Tariff-based 
Global Competitive Bidding (ESS- 01) 
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 128 of 136 
 
3. It is important for each bidder to thoroughly read the ‘rules and related criterion’ for 
the e- ReverseAuction as defined by the Buyer organization. 
Note: To participate in e-ReverseAuction, the ETS Bidding-Fee for e-ReverseAuction should 
be paid before the ‘Date and Time of Start of Reverse-Auction’. In case ETS Bidding-Fee for 
e- ReverseAuction is sent offline to the Auctioneer or ETS Service Provider, it is important 
for the bidder to ensure that the Auctioneer/ ETS Service Provider has received the ETS 
Bidding-Fee for e-ReverseAuction and also entered the related details in ETS. When the 
Auctioneer/ ETS Service Provider enters the details, the bidder should receive an e-mail 
acknowledgement. If ETS Bidding-Fee for e-ReverseAuction status of the bidder is not 
updated as outlined above, the bidder would not be able to participate in the Auction. 
4. During an e -auction, it is recommended that a bidder submits a bid well before the 
scheduled time of ‘Date and Time of Closure of Reverse -Auction’. Submission of a bid near 
the closing time of an auction may result in failure due to any of the various fact ors at that 
instant, such as – slow internet speed at the bidder’s end, slow running of computer at bidder’s 
end, nervousness of the bidder in the last few seconds, etc. This could lead to a delay in 
submission of data from the bidder’s computer to the server. Even if the delay is of a fraction 
of second after the scheduled closing time, it will result in failure of bid submission. Further, 
please note that a bid can be submitted even if the bidding page has not been refreshed 
manually, or otherwise depending on the conditions of the e-auction. 
Note: Successful receipt of Bid in an e-auction scenario takes place if the bid is successfully 
‘received and validated’ in the system (ETS) within the scheduled date and time of closure of 
bidding (On some ETS screens, this is also referred to as ‘Date and Time of Closure of 
Reverse-Auction’, or Forward-Auction, as the case may be). End Users shall be solely 
responsible for ensuring timely submission of their respective bids such that the bids are 
successfully received in ETS as stated above. ETS/ Service Provider is not responsible for 
what happens at an end-user’s end, or while a submission made by an end-user is in transit, 
until the submission is successfully ‘received and validated’ in ETS. When a bid is 
successfully ‘received and validated’, it is recorded in the ETS Audit Trail Report, which is 
generated by ETS. In case of any uncertainty, the application audit trail generated by ETS 
(ETS Audit Trail Report) shall be the final record/evidence for reference regarding the 
‘successful bid receipt’. 
5. It is important to digitally-sign your ‘Final bid’ after the end of e-Reverse Auction 
bidding event. 
Minimum Requirements at Bidder’s End 
Computer System having configuration with minimum Windows 7 or above, and Broadband 
connectivity Microsoft Internet Explorer 7.0 or above, or Edge with Internet Explorer mode 
Digital Certificate(s)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illustration 
a. System Availability
 
 
ILLUSTRATIONS 
(Please refer Clause 8 of the 
RfS) 
Annexure - D
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 130 of 136 
 
Under a BSSPA between an off-taker ‘X’ and BESSD ‘Y’ for a capacity ‘C’, the Schedule and 
Actual Injection into/Drawl from the Grid from the Project, as per the DSM/ UI Reports published by 
the Regional RPC for a Sample day is shown below: 
 
Date block 
Drawl (from Grid) 
Mus (Charging) 
(X) 
Injection (into 
Grid) MUs 
(Discharging) 
(Y) 
Scheduled 
MUs (Z) 
Time-block 
Availability, 
(TA) 
= (Xi/Zi) + 
(Yi/Zi) 
 
 
01-May-26 1 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 2 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 3 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 4 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 5 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 6 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 7 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 8 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 9 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 10 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 11 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 12 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 13 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 14 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 15 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 16 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 17 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 18 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 19 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 20 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 21 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 22 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 23 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 24 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 25 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 26 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 27 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 28 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 29 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 30 0 0 0 NA  
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 131 of 136 
 
01-May-26 31 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 32 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 33 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 34 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 35 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 36 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 37 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 38 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 39 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 40 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 41 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 42 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 43 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 44 0.02400 0 0.02941 0.82  
01-May-26 45 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 46 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 47 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 48 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 49 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 50 0.02300 0 0.02941 0.78  
01-May-26 51 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 52 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 53 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 54 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 55 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 56 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 57 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 58 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 59 0.02600 0 0.02941 0.88  
01-May-26 60 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 61 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 62 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 63 0.02941 0 0.02941 1.00  
01-May-26 64 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 65 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 66 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 67 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 68 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 69 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 70 0 0 0 NA  
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 132 of 136 
 
01-May-26 71 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 72 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 73 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 74 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 75 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 76 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 77 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 78 0 0.03000 0.03125 0.96  
01-May-26 79 0 0.02900 0.03125 0.93  
01-May-26 80 0 0.03125 0.03125 1.00  
01-May-26 81 0 0.03125 0.03125 1.00  
01-May-26 82 0 0.03125 0.03125 1.00  
01-May-26 83 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 84 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 85 0 0 0 NA  
01-May-26 86 0 0.02400 0.03125 0.77  
01-May-26 87 0 0.02400 0.03125 0.77  
01-May-26 88 0 0.02400 0.03125 0.77  
01-May-26 89 0 0.02400 0.03125 0.77  
01-May-26 90 0 0.02400 0.03125 0.77  
01-May-26 91 0 0.02400 0.03125 0.77  
01-May-26 92 0 0.01731 0.03125 0.55  
01-May-26 93 0 0.03125 0.03125 1.00  
01-May-26 94 0 0.03125 0.03125 1.00  
01-May-26 95 0 0.03125 0.03125 1.00  
01-May-26 96 0 0.03125 0.03125 1.00  
Total   0.573 0.439 1.08824    
i is the ith Time block in the day. 
The System Availability for the day is calculated as the mean of Column TA, 
for all time- blocks where Column Z is not zero. 
 
If CSPDCL has scheduled for charging of BESS & discharge of BESS and 
BESSD has not charge & discharge the BESS according to schedule then 
TA will be calculated as TA= (X/Z)+(Y/Z) for that time block. 
From the above table, Day’s System Availability = 0.93 
Similarly, the System availability shall be calculated for Monthly, 2976 time-blocks (96*31) in a 
Month (31 Days in a month considered in above), excluding time -blocks where Grid is 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 133 of 136 
 
unavailable or in case of Force Majeure. 
Assuming the following parameters: 
a. Quoted Storage charges= Rs x/kWh (For illustration purpose), A 
b. Total Contract Capacity= 500 MWh (for 125 MW/ 500 MWh), B 
c. Guaranteed Monthly Availability (in %): 0.95, C 
d. Annual system availability (as per procedure above) is calculated to be 0.93, D 
e. n = 31 
 
Liquidated Damages on account of shortage in annual system Availability, as 
calculated from formula provided in Clause 8.2: 
Assuming x = INR 3.50/ kWh 
Liquidated damages in Rs. = (C – D) x B x 1000 x A x n x 2.0 where 
=(0.95-0.93) x 500 x 1000 x 3.5 x 31 x 2.0 
=21.70 lakhs  
b. System Efficiency 
 
The present illustration is for calculating the Daily System Efficiency as demonstration only. The 
same methodology shall be used for calculation of monthly system efficiency as per Clause 
8.1.d.3. 
System Efficiency = 
𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑜𝑓 𝐶𝑜𝑙𝑢𝑚𝑛𝑛 (𝑌)
𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑜𝑓 𝐶𝑜𝑙𝑢𝑚𝑛 (𝑋)  = 
0.439
0.573 = 0.766 (rounded off to 3 decimal places) 
Assuming: 
 
a. Monthly System Efficiency = 0.766, 
b. Total Monthly Drawl form Grid(Charging Power) = 17.763 MUs 
 
Assuming APPC tariff of previous financial year for CSPDCL is Rs. 6.00/ kWh, then 
Liquidated Damages is calculated @ Rs. 6.00 for excess loss of energy considering 
expected System Efficiency to be 85% 
Excess conversion losses = (0.850-0.766) * Total Drawl from the grid in the month 
(i.e., Charging Energy) 
Liquidated Damages for the month = Rs. (0.850-0.766) x 17.763 x 1.5 x APPC tariff (in 
millions) 
= Rs 13.4295 Millions 
= Rs 134.29 lakhs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 134 of 136 
 
c. Example:1 (If RtE<70%) 
If CSPDCL provides 588.235 MWh charge at 85% RtE, then expected output is: 
Expected Discharge=588.235×0.85=500 MWh 
Let suppose actual discharge delivered by BESS = 392.176 MWh 
Then, RtE=392.176/588.235=66.67% (<70%) 
Expected=500 MWh, Actual=392.176 MWh 
Excess Loss=500.000−392.176= 107.824 MWh 
LD as per clause 8.2 
Conclusion from Example 1 
• Monthly capacity charge will NOT be paid to BESSD 
• Heavy penalty 
• And this month counts towards 6-month breach rule 
Example:2 ( RtE between 70% & 85%) 
If CSPDCL provides 588.235 MWh charge at 85% RtE, then expected output is: 
Expected Discharge=588.235×0.85=500 MWh 
Let suppose actual discharge delivered by BESS = 470.588 MWh 
Then, RtE=470.588/588.235=80% (between 70% and 85%) 
Expected=500.000 MWh, Actual=470.588 MWh 
Excess Loss=500−470.588= 29.412 MWh 
LD as per clause 8.2 
Conclusion from Example 2-  
• BESSD still gets monthly storage tariff as per BESPA/ RfS. 
• LD as per clause 8.2. 
Conclusion from Example 2-  
• BESSD still gets monthly capacity charge. 
• LD as per clause 8.2. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 135 of 136 
 
 
Annexure-E 
PROJECT LOCATION DETAILS 
(Bidders are requested to contact the Transmission licensee for further details, if 
required) 
 
Sr. 
Nos. 
NAME OF 
SUB-STATION 
EVACUATI 
ON 
CAPACITY 
IN MWH 
Interconn
ection 
Voltage 
level in 
KV 
Contact details AREA 
(Acre) 
 
1 
 
Khedamara 
Substation 
 
500 
 
220 
Mr. Vivek Awasthy, CSPDCL 
Mob No: 9202223732 
10 
NOTES: 
1. Prospective Bidders can contact and visit site during 10AM to 5PM on or before 
Pre-bid on their own. 
2. The purpose of site visit is only for assessment of physical site conditions by the 
prospective Bidders. Prospective Bidders shall rely only on written 
clarifications/information/data issued by CSPDCL corporate office. CSPDCL will 
not be bound to any clari fications/information/data considered by prospective 
Bidders for tendering purpose which are not issued by CSPDCL corporate office. 
3. Representatives of prospective Bidders shall obey the safety guidelines during the 
site visit. For not obeying safety guidelines, it is the sole responsibility of the visitor 
for any consequences/eventuality happened at site. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
RfS for Procurement of 125 MW/500 MWh 
BESS in Chhattisgarh with VGF under Tariff-
based 
Global Competitive Bidding  
RfS No. NVVN/C&M/BESS-05/2025-26 
Dated 01.12.2025 
Page 136 of 136 
 
Annexure-F 
FORMAT FOR COMMISSIONING OF BESS & OTHER DETAILS 
 
 
1. Commissioning procedure of BESS to be followed by BESSD 
2. Commissioning checklist 
3. Synchronization declaration to be submitted by BESSD 
4. Declaration of System Particulars by BESSD 
5. Sample for part/full commissioning certification 
6. Communication parameters required by SLDC 
7. Fire safety wall for protection(As requested by BESSD-for reference) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 