PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
Section I  
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
FOR 
 
 
Name of Work: “Design, Supply and Erection of 1 No. of Prefabricated Closed Store 
including all Civil work at PVUNL, Patratu.” 
 
NIT No.: 9900313198 
 
                          
1.0 PVUNL invites online bids  on “ Single Stage  Two Envelope Bidding basis ” (Envelope-I: Fee & 
Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for aforesaid package-for 
PVUNL Patratu, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of the activities and services mentioned in scope of work and as per 
“Technical Specification/BOQ ” for “Design, Supply and Erection of 1 No. of Prefabricated 
Closed Store including all Civil work at PVUNL, Patratu.” 
The scope of work (unless specified otherwise) shall comprise, but not limited to the design, 
engineering, supply, erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s 
works, packing,  supply, transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage, 
equipment erection and commissioning  including associated civil , structural and all associated 
works. Detailed Specifications and Scope of Work are enclosed separately. 
PVUN intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal  
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 
Limited and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT 
Contract Period Completion period shall be 08 
Months 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Estimated Cost of Work in INR INR 2,79,42,768.37/- 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction  Not Applicable 
Tender Fee NOT APPLICABLE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMD/Bid Security INR 5,00,000/- (Rs. Five Lakh) 
(Exemption NOT ALLOWED) 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
MSE Benefit Being Works Contract, MSE Benefits 
are Not Applicable 
 
 
 
4. Address for communication: 
 
AGM (C&M), 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED, 
P.O - PTPS, Distt: Ramgarh, Jharkhand 
PIN - 829119, 
Mobile: 9431600888 / 9471002992 
Emails: kspratap@ntpc.co.in/sudebhalder@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.pvunl.co.in 
or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
5. Registered Office 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U40300DL2015GOI286533 
Website: www.pvunl.co.in 
 
 
 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
Section I  
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
FOR 
 
 
Name of Work: “Design, Supply and Erection of 1 No. of Prefabricated Closed Store 
including all Civil work at PVUNL, Patratu.” 
 
NIT No.: 9900313198 
 
                          
1.0 PVUNL invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” (Envelope-I: Fee & 
Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for aforesaid package-for 
PVUNL Patratu, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK  
 
The scope of work comprises of the activities and services mentioned in scope of work and as per 
“Technical Specification/BOQ” for “Design, Supply and Erection of 1 No. of Prefabricated 
Closed Store including all Civil work at PVUNL, Patratu.” 
The scope of work (unless specified otherwise) shall comprise, but not limited to the design, 
engineering, supply, erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s 
works, packing, supply, transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage, 
equipment erection and commissioning including associated civil, structural and all associated 
works. Detailed Specifications and Scope of Work are enclosed separately. 
PVUN intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 
Limited and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT 
Contract Period Completion period shall be 08 
Months 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Estimated Cost of Work in INR INR 2,79,42,768.37/- 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction  Not Applicable 
Tender Fee NOT APPLICABLE  
 
EMD/Bid Security INR 5,00,000/- (Rs. Five Lakh) 
(Exemption NOT ALLOWED) 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
MSE Benefit Being Works Contract, MSE Benefits 
are Not Applicable 
 
 No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on e-
tender portal. 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, 
failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a)      Tender Fee: NOT APPLICABLE  
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid an Earnest 
Money Deposit/Bid Security of amount Rs 5,00,000/- (Rs. Five Lakh only) 
c)       Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
Any bid not accompanied by Tender fee and Bid security shall be rejected by the Employer 
as being non-responsive and shall be rejected without being opened. 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a Separate sealed envelope (only in case 
where bid security is submitted through BG) shall be rejected by the employer as being non-
responsive and shall not be opened. In case, the bid Security is submitted through electronic fund 
transfer (EFT)/online payment, Bidder to submit the proof of e-payment of bid security either in 
separate sealed envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. 
 
Option for Online payment of EMD and tender fee is not enabled at GepNIC/e tender portal for 
PVUN. However, EFT can be done to PVUN account and details can be uploaded in GEPNIC 
Portal:  
 
For EMD and Tender Fee through EFT Transfer to PVUN Account, the payment shall in done 
separately in the SBI Account of Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd: Details are as follows:  
 
  
Name of Account Holder : PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LTD  
Bank Account No.              : 35397838621  
Bank Name                         : STATE BANK OF INDIA   
Branch                                 :  PATRATU (Branch Code: 02992),  
Bank Address                     :  PATRATU THERMAL POWER STATION PATRATU,   
                                              DIST: RAMGARH, JHARKHAND, PIN-829119.                          
IFSC Code                      :  SBIN0002992  
For details please refer Clause 14, 15 & 16 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through online payment of bid security amount applicable for 
this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the tender 
provisions. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank guarantee and 
also ensure that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the address mentioned 
above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide 
GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS.  
 
5.1 The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
requirements stipulated here under: 
 
 
5.1.1 
 
The bidder should have successfully executed the Supply and erection of pre-
fabricated portable structures or pre-engineered steel structures, including civil work 
in at least one installation within the preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening in any of the following manner: 
 
 At least one work order having a value not less than Rs. 223.5/- Lakh 
                                                                                         OR 
 At least two work orders, each having a value not less than Rs. 139.7/- 
Lakh 
                                                                                          OR 
 At least three work orders, each having a value not less than Rs. 111.7/- 
Lakh 
 
 Notes for clause 5.1.1 above: 
 
(a) The word “executed” mentioned in clause 5.1.1 means that the bidder should have 
achieved the specified criteria with any of the following conditions: 
i) The work order is started earlier to the stipulated period, but completed within 
the stipulated period. In such cases, entire executed quantity and value of 
the relevant work vide that work order shall be considered for evaluation. 
ii) The work order is started and completed within the stipulated period. In such 
cases, entire executed quantity and value of the relevant work vide that 
work order shall be considered for evaluation. 
iii) The work order is started within the stipulated period but not completed as on 
the last date of stipulated period. In such cases, “In Progress” executed 
quantity and value of the relevant work vide that work order as on the last 
date of the stipulated period, shall be considered for evaluation. 
(b) The Bidder shall also be considered qualified in case the award for reference 
work has been received by the bidder either directly from owner of plant or 
intermediary organization from which it has received the order. However, 
certificate/ documentary evidence from such owner of plant or the intermediary 
organization shall be required to be furnished by the bidder along with its bid in 
support of its claim of meeting the qualification requirement as per Clause 5.1.1 
with any of the conditions mentioned in Notes (a) above. 
 
(c)  For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only 
shall be considered. In case of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide 
the break –up of basic value and taxes. 
 
(d)   General Clarifications: 
     
Supply and Erection of MS Bunk houses will not be considered as qualifying 
work. 
         
5.2 Financial Criteria 
 
5.2.1 
 
 
 
 
5.2.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2.4 
 
 
The average annual turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial years 
as on the last date of Techno-Commercial bid opening should not be less than Rs. 
279.42/- Lakh (Indian Rupees Two-Hundred Seventy-Nine Lakh and Forty-Two 
Thousand only). 
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as 
on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would 
be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking 
from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, 
as per the format enclosed in the Techno Commercial bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award.  
b)   The Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year, of the 
date of Techno-commercial Bid opening, shall not be less than 100% of the bidders 
paid up share capital. In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net Worth based 
on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary 
(ies) of the Holding company wherever applicable, the Net Worth of the bidder and 
its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding 
company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 75% of 
their respective paid up share capitals. Net worth in combined manner shall be 
calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = [(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)] x 100 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75 % of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-
alone entity basis, the un-audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 i)  Copies of the un-audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
 
 
 
Company. 
  
 ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable. In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of 
the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening 
and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
 Notes for Financial Criteria: 
 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserves means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back 
of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed 
to them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
(iv) For Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (07) 
days prior to the date of techno- commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
 
 
6 ‘Class-I local suppliers’ / “Class-I local suppliers and Class-II local suppliers ’’ only are 
eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents / Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier (Minimum Local 
Content 60%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form. 
 
By accepting the MLC provision of GTE, it will be considered that: - 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in 
Annexure-I to BDS. 
 
Also supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violation of 
‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII Order) dated 
15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion 
of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case of false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false 
declaration and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
7 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
8 PVUN reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be 
qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
10 PVUNL reserves the right to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS 
published in the portal AT ANY TIME. PVUNL also reserves the right to extend/change the bidding schedule 
through publishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situation demands so AT ANY TIME. 
The corrigendum as decided by PVUNL and deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions 
therein. This prevails over the relevant provisions elsewhere in the bid document . The 
corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed 
that the information contained therein will have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders are 
advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendum, if any. 
 
11 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
12 The bid documents consist of the following: 
 
Section 
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)  
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  
III Bid Data Sheet (BDS)  
IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC)  
V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC)  
VI Technical Specifications/Scope of Work , Drawings and Quality Plans 
etc. 
VII Forms and Procedures  
 
 
13 IMPORTANT NOTES: 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET (ATTACHED separately for the package as bid document) 
is to be filled up properly for the stipulated QR parameters and to be submitted in the bid at 
appropriate file/folder provided for the purpose.  
 
b) LATEST PROVISIONS FOR “AUTHENTICATION OF VERACITY OF DOCUMENTS 
SUBMITTED BY THE BIDDER IN SUPPORT OF QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT” HAS 
BEEN INCORPORATED IN CLAUSE NO 7 OF BID DATA SHEET (SECTION III-BDS). 
AUTHENTICATED DOCUMENTS (AS APPLICABLE- FROM INDEPENDENT STATUTORY 
AUDITOR OF BIDDER/ OR SPECIFIED THIRD-PARTY INSPECTION AGENCY (TPIA)) IN 
LINE WITH THE SAID PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED. 
 
b) UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). It is mandatory to mention UDIN 
(Unique Document Identification Number) by the bidders while submitting audited financial 
statements, other CA certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette notification dt. 
02.08.2019. 
c) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONED IN Bid Data Sheet (Section III- BDS) 
shall amend and/or supplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidders (Section II- ITB). 
Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
d) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section-V, shall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section-IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a 
conflict, the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
 
14. The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website
 https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited.  The Bidder would be 
required to register on the website. 
First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Note that 1 st time bidders 
can participate in PVUNL Open Tenders without having NTPC/PVUNL’s Vendor Code. 
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
However, users whose email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by 
NTPC/PVUNL/first time users not having been allotted any vendor code by 
NTPC/PVUNL, should send a copy of the registration details to the e-mail address 
specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following details at least 
three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
 
a) Request in the letter head of the Company. 
b) Copy of Registration Certificate/Certificate of Incorporation (as applicable) 
c) Address Proof 
d) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
e) Email ID and Contact No. 
f) Name and Designation of the contact person. 
g) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank. 
The above details shall be mandatory for EMD regularization/reconciliation and subsequent 
refund/conversion (as/if applicable).  
 
15  All references to the “Policy for Withholding & Banning of Business Dealings” appearing 
anywhere in the Standard Bidding Documents shall be replaced with “Policy for Debarment from 
Business Dealings”. 
 
16 Address for communication: 
 
AGM (C&M), 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED, 
P.O - PTPS, Distt: Ramgarh, Jharkhand 
PIN - 829119, 
Mobile: 9431600888 / 9471002992 
Emails: kspratap@ntpc.co.in/sudebhalder@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.pvunl.co.in  
or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
17 Registered Office 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED  
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U40300DL2015GOI286533 
Website: www.pvunl.co.in  
 
 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 06-Dec-2025 01:19 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited||Patratu Super Thermal Power Project
Tender Reference
Number PVUNL/Patratu/9900313198
Tender ID 2025_PVUNL_102731_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Offline Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Offline S.No Instrument Type
1 DD
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf Nil Deviation
Certificate
.pdf Scanned copy
of EMD
.pdf
Declaration on
Class-1 Local
Supplier, with
all Requisite
details.
.pdf Power of
Attorney
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Technical
Details (Other
than QR
Documents)
.pdf
QR Documents
(Certified by
Independent
Statutory
Auditor / TPIA,
as applicable)
.pdf
Undertaking
from
Independent
Statutory
Auditor / TPIA,
(as applicable)
.pdf
Attachment -3
(Qualification
Data Sheet),
(along with
CEO/CFO
Certificate , if
required).
3 Finance .xls
Price Bid
(Including
GST)
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 5,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No

Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Patratu
Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam
Limited
EMD Payable At Patratu
BG Required No
Minimum Direct EMD
Payment in ₹
0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Design, Supply and Erection of 1No. of Prefabricated Closed Store including all Civil work at PVUNL, Patratu.
Work Description Design, Supply and Erection of 1No. of Prefabricated Closed Store including all Civil work at PVUNL, Patratu.
Pre Qualification Details As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
No 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 240 
Location Patratu Vidyut Utpadan
Nigam PATRATU UTILITY
BUILD
Pincode 829119 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting Address NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Patratu Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 06-Dec-2025 04:00 PM Bid Opening Date 24-Dec-2025 04:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
06-Dec-2025 04:00 PM Document Download / Sale End Date 23-Dec-2025 04:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 06-Dec-2025 04:00 PM Clarification End Date 11-Dec-2025 06:00 PM 
Bid Submission Start Date 06-Dec-2025 04:00 PM Bid Submission End Date 23-Dec-2025 04:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 603.09
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 BOQ BOQ_105944.xls BOQ 388.00
2 Tender Documents TenderDocuments9900313198.rar Complete Tender documents 23112.60
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Expected Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the
PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT
requirements of the Tender. - [ MLC DECLARATION FOR SERVICES]
Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules - [ SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC - [ FRAUD PREVENTION] Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC - [
BANNING POLICY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
5.0 Do you certify full compliance on clause as per tender documents on Restrictions on
procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India - [
Yes Yes
LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE]
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements - [ QR COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents - [ NO DEVIATION
CERTIFICATION] Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. ajaypal@ntpc.co.in Ajay Pal AJAY PAL
2. shilanandminj@ntpc.co.in shilanand minj SHILANAND MINJ
3. kspratap@ntpc.co.in KUMAR SHAILENDRA PRATAP K SHAILENDRA PRATAP
4. shalinibeck@ntpc.co.in Shalini Beck SHALINI BECK
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid status Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in Public
Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal places 2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Not Applicable Being Works Contract
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name DGM (CnM) PVUNL
Address Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam PATRATU UTILITY BUILDING, PO JHARKHAND 829119
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By KUMAR SHAILENDRA PRATAP
Designation DGM (CnM)
Created Date 06-Dec-2025 10:48 AM
 