1 | P a g e  
 
 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A Joint Venture of NTPC Ltd. & SAIL)  
NOTICE INVITING TENDER  
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING)  
NIT NO. : SSC/CS/OT/30/2025-26/2800010194                       Dated: 04.12.2025  
NSPCL -Bhilai invites tenders for following package of PP3 Bhilai .:  
 
Sl. 
No. 
Pkg. No.  Description of Work  Estimated 
Value (Rs)  
Cost of 
Tender 
Document 
(Rs.)  
Contract  
Period  
Sale Start 
Date / 
Sale Close 
Date 
Last Date 
& Time for 
Receipt of 
Bid EMD(Rs)  
01 
SSC/ 
25207 
Work of Laying ash slurry 
disposal pipeline including 
pedestal works from PP -III ash 
slurry pump house to Ash dyke 
4 & 5 of PP -II, at NSPCL 
Durgapur.  
2,25,72,472.65 NA 
18 
Months  
06/12/20
25 27/12 /25 
15:00Hrs  2,00,000.00 19/12/20
25 
Tender Documents can be downloaded from SRM Portal: https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal  
EMD submission Procedure help document can be accessed at link - “SRM Online EMD Payment Manual” on SRM Portal 
website: -   https://www.nspcl.co.in/pages/nspcl-srm-portal. 
Abridged NIT along with Qualifying Requirement may be viewed at www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in.  The details of tender 
for e-bidding shall be available at https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal  (RFx/NIT No.: 2800010194). 
Tender document fee /EMD should be submitted online. Tender Fee and  EMD can also be paid offline in the form of  
Demand Draft / Pay Ord er / Banker's Cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payable at Bhilai  
and is to be submitted at following address: 
AGM(SSC-C&M), NSPCL Bhilai –Expansion Site, Near Purena Village, PO -Bhilai (East) Distt. - Durg, C.G. 490021  Tel.: 
0788-2347063.  
Request for Tender Fee Exemption (if applicable) along with relevant Document (UDYAM CERTIFICATE) should be 
submitted at the following email ids: arti.chore@nspcl.co.in or ushakumai@nspcl.co.in or sudeepk.das@nspcl.co.in so 
that the eligible agency is enabled to download the tender document and participation.  
Instruction for e-bidding:  
1. The bidder must have Digital Signature Certificate (Class-III). 
2. The bidders who already have valid SRM User ID:  
a) Login the SRM Portal and click on RFx and Auction button. 
b) Rfx will be available to view for all the bidders which are already having valid SRM User ID’s.  
c) Interested bidders have to register first against the Bid invitation by clicking on “Register” button placed   into Rfx 
header segment. 
d) Once Registration step & Tender fee submission is done by bidder and the tender fee received by the NSPCL and 
updated into the system then  Bidder can “Create Response” and submit the bids against the Bid invitation   into 
the system.  
3. New Bidders who are not having SAP/ERP Vendor Code and / or SRM User ID:  
a) In case a new bidder wants to participate for a particular Bid invitation in SRM portal, the bidder first of all has to 
submit the filled Registration Form & EFT Form along with required supporting documents e.g. as specified in 
forms, till 12/12/2025 to C&M department, NSPCL Bhilai in hard copy or scanned copy throug h e -mail at 
arti.choure@nspcl.co.in or ak.sahoo@nspcl@co.in 
b) C&M department will initiate the process for vendor ID creation in SAP & send the bidder’s SRM Credentials 
(User ID along with initial Password) to them. 
c) After creation of SRM Credentials the step 2 (above) shall be followed by the bidder.  
2 | P a g e  
 
All Corrigendum/Modifications/Updates for the above NITs shall only be published on the aforesaid web sites .  
For any Technical Support, please contact SRM helpdesk at 0788-2282414. 
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work: :  Work of Laying ash slurry disposal pipeline including pedestal works from PP -III ash slurry pump 
house to Ash dyke 4 & 5 of PP -II, at NSPCL Durgapur.  
The Bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that t hey fulfil the following qualifying 
Requirements:- 
 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements of Bidders:  
1.1) Technical Criteria : 
01. The bidder should have executed/completed civil works involving Building Work / RCC Work / Road  Work / 
Bridge Work or any combination o f above type of works and erection/ maintenance of steel  Pipeline work during 
last 7 (seven) years ending last day of the month previous to the date of NIT  As per the following criteria  
 
Three works/orders each costing not less than Rs. 90.29 lakhs (exclus ive of tax & duties)  
Or 
 
Two works/orders each costing not less than Rs. 112.86 lakhs (exclusive of tax & duties)  
Or 
 
One works/order costing not less than Rs. 180.58 lakhs (exclusive of tax & duties).  
Note:  
 
Executed / completed work means : value of actua l executed portion of a contract and not the total  Contract 
value . In Case of a contract under execution as on the last day of the month previous  To the date of NIT, the actual 
executed portion of the contract on that date duly certified  by the owner shall  be considered.  
 
1.2) Financial Criteria : 
A) The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the  Date of Techno -
Commercial bid opening should not be less than INR 150.48 Lakhs (Rupees One  Crore fifty lakhs forty eight 
thousand only). (Exclusive of tax & duties).  
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company 
would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that  the Net Worth of such 
Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up 
share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
Techno - Commer cial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Techno Commercial bid documents, pledging unconditional 
and irrevocable financial support for the execution o f the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. . 
 
B) Net Worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred percent ) of its paid up share  Capital as on the 
last day of the preceding financial year, on the date of Techno -commercial Bid  Opening, In ca se the Bidder does 
not meet the Net Worth criteria stipulated above on its own, It can  Meet the requirement of net worth based on 
the strength of its subsidiary (ies) and/ or Holding  Company and/ or subsidia ry (ies) of its holding company 
wherever applicab le. In such a  case however the Net Worth of the bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding  
Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding company, in combined manner  Should not be less than 100% 
(hundred per  cent ) of their total paid up share capital.  However  individually , their Net Worth should not be less 
than 75% of their respective paid up share capitals.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined) = [(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)] x 100  
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are indiv idual net worth which should not be less than 75 % of the respective paid  
Up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
 
(c) In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone entity basis, the  
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the bidder 
further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification:  
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of  the bidder along with copies of the 
audited  consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.  
3 | P a g e  
 
(ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the  bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated fin ancial statements form part of the  
consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.  
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno - Commercial bid  Opening are not 
available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant  Shall also be considered acceptable. 
In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a  Practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three  Consecutive financial year s preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the  Financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as 
per the format  Enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company  are under 
audit  As on the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered  
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
Notes for Financial Criteria:  
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid  up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves  Means all reserves 
credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not  include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision  and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of 
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses  to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be 
reduced from reserves and surplus.  
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.  
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per  Companies Act 
of India.  Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the capabilities  and 
capacity of the Bidder / his collaborato rs/ associates / subsidiaries /group companies to perform  the contract, 
should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the  employer.  
1.3) For Financial selection Criteria, QR para 1.0, Bidder must submit copy of Audited Balance  Sheet and Profit & 
Loss Account for the specified period. In case, where audited results for the Last  Financial year as on the date of 
technical bid opening, are not available, the financial results  Certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall 
be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder  is not able to submit the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its  financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last  financial year, shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters.  
1.4) Other Income shall not be considered for calculation of Annual Turnover.  
1.5) Figures at Sl. No. 1.1 & 1.2 are excluding taxes and duties.  
 
 
NIT Conditions 
 
1. Bid documents will be issued to all the pa rties on their request (cost of tender document to be made by a 
crossed demand draft / pay order / banker's cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
payable at Bhilai ) for issue of bid documents without prima -facie examination of their qualifica tion status. 
However, issue of bid documents shall not mean that bidders are considered qualified. Tender document fee 
will not be refunded. Request for tender documents received after the last date as mentioned above due to 
delays postal/courier services shall not be entertained. 
 
2. NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for bids without assigning 
any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
3. Agencies are advised to visit the site to familiarize themselves with the nature of work and the site conditions.  
 
4. If the last date of receiving application and date of bid opening coincide with a holiday, the date will be shifted 
to the next working day. 
 
5. BEING WORKS CONTRACT,MSE BENEFIT IS NOT APPLICABLE. . 
 
6. Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever applicable) 
undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in 
support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI).  
 
7. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group companies 
to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessme nt in the overall interest of the 
Employer.The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be limited 
to the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of credentials. 
4 | P a g e  
 
A negative determination of such assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the 
bid.  
 
8. The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered to ascertain the 
bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The Employer at its discretion may seek any 
clarification and/or documentary evidence only for the reference works as mentioned above. However, no 
change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant fo r conforming to the specified 
qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”.  
   
9. “Bidders are required to furnish the details of the past experience like authentic Work Orders/Purchase 
Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, client certificates, completion certificate, etc. in support of 
meeting the Qualifying Requirements based on which selection is to be made as per format  in 
Attachment -3 FORM FOR QUALIFICATION DETAILS ( mandatory)   . However, if any of the 
Work Orders/Purchase Orders /Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements pertains to the work executed by 
Bidder for NSPCL /NTPC in the past, then in respect of such Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of 
Awards/Contract Agreements, Bidder shall not be required to enclose Client Certificate a long with its 
Bid.” 
 
i) All the bidders, who are required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the 
documents, in support of Technical Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work 
Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from 
Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third -Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Bidders can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Auditor certifying 
the data required for meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly certified an d verified documents from their Statutory 
Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR along with a certificate regarding 
verification of authenticity of documents as per the format placed at Annexure -II  Undertaking from 
Statutory Auditor) and/ or Annexure-III  Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the  
 bidder in support of meeting Technical QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or 
specified TPIA.  
 
   iii)   In case documents are certified & verified  for authenticity through TPIA, the verification and 
certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIAs:  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd.  
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18)TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not certified by 
specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the format enclosed with the bidding 
documents, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be 
liable for rejection. 
 
(iv)   The Bidder shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials in support of Qualifying 
Requirements verified & certified by their Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs 
5 | P a g e  
 
pertaining to third party verification and certification (including those by statutory auditors) sh all be 
borne by the Bidder. Employer shall have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and 
shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor.  
 
10.     NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out 
of such action. 
 
Address for communication:  
AGM (SSC-C&M) 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED,  
Post Office: BHILAI (East), Distt. : Durg (CHHATTISGARH), Pin: 490 021  
 : 0788–2282446, 2347063 
Email:ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in  /  arti.choure@nspcl.co.in 
 
 