PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
Section I  
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
FOR 
 
Supply, Installation and commissioning of CCTV System at Main 
Township, Patratu. 
 
NIT No.:   9900314535 
 
                          
1.0 PVUNL invites online bids  on “ Single Stage  Two Envelope Bidding basis ” (Envelope-I: Fee & 
Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for aforesaid package-for 
PVUNL Patratu, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of the activities and services mentioned in scope of work and as per 
“Technical Specification/BOQ” for “Supply, Installation and commissioning of CCTV System at 
Main Township, Patratu.”.  
The scope of work (unless s pecified otherwise) shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, 
erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, 
supply, transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment  erection 
including associated civil and structural works if any. Detailed Specifications and Scope of Work are 
enclosed separately. 
PVUN intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & C onditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal  
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 
Limited and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT 
Contract Period (a) For supply and installations: 16  
weeks  
(b) For Warranty: 05 years (shall start 
after handing over the complete 
system to PVUNL). 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Tentative Estimated Cost of Work in INR INR 1,46,10,780/- 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction  Not Applicable 
Tender Fee Not Applicable  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMD/Bid Security INR 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh) 
(Exemption NOT ALLOWED) 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
MSE Benefit Being Works Contract, MSE 
Benefits are Not Applicable 
 No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on e-
tender portal. 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to  be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, 
failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a)      Tender Fee: Not Applicable  
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid an Earnest 
Money Deposit/Bid Security of amount Rs 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh only) 
c)      Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 Any bid not accompanied by Bid security (EFT Transfer or BG) shall be rejected by the 
Employer as being non-responsive and shall be rejected without being opened. 
 Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a Separate sealed envelope (only 
in case where bid security is submitted through BG) shall be rejected by the employer as 
being non-responsive and shall not be opened. In case, the bid Security is submitted through 
electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, Bidder to submit the proof of e -payment of bid 
security either in separate sealed envelope or in the e -tendering portal.  All bids must be 
accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. 
 Option for Online payment of EMD and tender fee is not enabled at GePNIC/e tender 
portal for PVUNL. System will show offline payment options as DD. However, EFT can 
be done to PVUN L account (detailed below)  and details can be uploaded in GEPNIC 
Portal. EFT Tx No can be entered as DD Number.  
 
 For EMD through EFT Transfer to PVUN Account,  the payment shall be made in the SBI 
Account of Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd: Details are as follows:  
 
 
  
Name of Account Holder : PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LTD  
Bank Account No.              : 35397838621  
Bank Name                         : STATE BANK OF INDIA   
Branch                                 :  PATRATU (Branch Code: 02992),  
Bank Address                     :  PATRATU THERMAL POWER STATION PATRATU,   
                                              DIST: RAMGARH, JHARKHAND, PIN-829119.                          
IFSC Code                      :  SBIN0002992  
 
 If EMD is submitted in form of BG, BG should be valid for 45 days beyond expiry (180 
Days) of the validity of bid, i.e. 225 days from the end date/deadline for submission of 
bid. 
 For details, please refer to Clause 14, 15 & 16 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS). 
 Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through online payment of bid security amount applicable 
for this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the 
tender provisions. 
 Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank 
guarantee and also ensure that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the 
address mentioned above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide 
GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
The bidder who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they fulfil t he 
following Qualifying requirements 
 
5.1 Technical Criteria 
 
5.1.1 The Bidder should have executed work order of supply, Installation and Commissioning of 
Networking / Video Surveillance Systems including CCTV cameras during last five (05) years as 
on the date of techno commercial bid opening. 
AND 
5.1.2 The offered combination of CCTV camera make and video management software should 
have been in successful operation for at least one (01) year prior to the date of techno -commercial 
bid opening with work order values meeting the following: - 
 
One (1) order having contract value not less than INR 129.87 Lakh  
OR 
Two (2) orders having contract value not less than INR 81.17 Lakh each 
OR 
Three (3) orders having contract value not less than INR 64.94 Lakh each 
 
Notes for 5.1 above: 
 
The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria 
specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/ closed. 
 
In case of orders under execution, the value of  work executed till the date of Techno -commercial 
bid opening duly certified by the owner shall be considered acceptable. 
 
In case, bidder has executed reference work under two orders one for supply and one for services 
separately for the same installation , combined value of both the orders shall be considered as a 
single order for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
The bidder should be authorized agent of OEM of CCTV camera and Video Management 
software & they have to submit authorization letter from OEM for this  particular tender in 
technical bid, failing which the bid will be liable to be rejected 
 
5.2 Financial Criteria: 
 
5.2.1 The average annual turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial years as on 
the last date of Techno -Commercial bid open ing, should not be less than INR 1,62,34,200.00 
(INR One crore sixty-two lakhs thirty-four thousand and two hundred Only) 
 
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required t o meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno -Commercial bid, 
a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Techno Commercial bid documents, pledg ing 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in 
case of award.  
 
The Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year, of the date of 
Techno-commercial Bid opening, shall not be less than 100% of the bidders paid up share capital. 
In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary 
(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding company wherever 
applicable, the Net W orth of the bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding company and/or 
Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of 
their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net Worth should not be les s than 
75% of their respective paid up share capitals. Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated 
as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = [(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)] x 100 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75 % of the  respective 
paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity basis, 
the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder  can be considered acceptable 
provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification: 
 
i)  Copies of the un-audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
  
ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall also be co nsidered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be consi dered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are 
under audit as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Financial Criteria: 
 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves  
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss accou nt and miscellaneous expenses 
to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shal l have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act of India. 
 
(iv) For Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (07) days prior to 
the date of techno- commercial bid opening shall be used 
 
6 ‘Class-I local suppliers’ / “Class-I local suppliers and Class -II local suppliers ’’ only  are 
eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents  / Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier  (Minimum Local 
Content equal to or more than 50%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form. 
 
By accepting the MLC provision of GTE, it will be considered that: - 
 
“Bidder is 'Class -I local supplier’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in  
Annexure-I to BDS. 
 
Also supplier has not be en debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violation of  
‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP -MII Order) dated  
15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion  
of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case  of false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false 
declaration and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisi ons of bidding documents in this regard  
before submission of their bids. 
 
7 Any ‘Bidder from a country which  shares a land  border with India’, as specified  in the  Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the  Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible t o 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries  (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended  lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
8 PVUN reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids /NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be 
qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the pres ence of 
Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
10 PVUNL reserves the right to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS 
published in the portal AT ANY TIME. PVUNL also reserves the right to extend/change the bi dding schedule 
through publishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situation demands so AT ANY TIME. 
The corrigendum as decided by PVUNL and deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions 
therein. This prevails over the relevant  provisions elsewhere in  the bid document . The 
corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed 
that the information contained therein will have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidder s are 
advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendum, if any. 
 
11 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
12 The bid documents consists of the following: 
 
Section 
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
VI Scope of Work/Supply & Services, Technical Specifications, General & 
Technical Requirements, Special Payment Terms, Quality Plans etc & 
Technical Documents/Certifications/Declarations to be submitted with 
Bid (Details sought from bidders for meeting Technical Evaluation 
Criteria) 
VII Forms and Procedures & Attachment-3 (Most Important- Verified 
Credentials & Details sought from bidders for meeting QR). 
 
 
 
 
13 IMPORTANT NOTES: 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET (ATTACHED separately for the package as bid document) 
is to be filled up properly for the stipulated QR parameters and to be submitted in the bid at 
appropriate file/folder provided for the purpose. 
 
b) LATEST PROVISIONS FOR “AUTHENTICATION OF VERACITY OF DOCUMENTS 
SUBMITTED BY THE BIDDER IN SUPPORT OF QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT” HAS 
BEEN INCORPORATED IN CLAUSE NO 7 OF BID DATA SHEET (SECTION III -BDS). 
AUTHENTICATED DOCUMENTS (AS APPLICABLE- FROM INDEPENDENT STATUTORY 
AUDITOR OF BIDDER/ OR SPECIFIED THIRD -PARTY INSPECTION AGENCY (TPIA)) IN 
LINE WITH THE SAID PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED. 
 
b) UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number  (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute  of Chartered  Accountant of India (ICAI). It is  mandatory to mention UDIN 
(Unique Document Identification Number) by the bidders while submitting audited financial 
statements, o ther CA certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette notification dt. 
02.08.2019. 
c) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONED IN Bid Data Sheet (Section III - BDS) 
shall amend and/or supplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidd ers (Section II - ITB). 
Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
d) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section -V, shall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section -IV of Standard Bidding D ocument, wherever there is a 
conflict, the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
 
14. The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from t he NTPC tender website
 https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited . The Bidder would be 
required to register on the website. 
First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Note that 1 st time bidders 
can participate in PVUNL Open Tenders without having NTPC/PVUNL’s Vendor Code. 
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
However, users whose email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by 
NTPC/PVUNL/first time users not having been allotted any vendor code by 
NTPC/PVUNL, should send a copy of the registration details to the e -mail address 
specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following details at least 
three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
 
a) Request in the letter head of the Company. 
b) Copy of Registration Certificate/Certificate of Incorporation (as applicable) 
c) Address Proof 
d) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
e) Email ID and Contact No. 
f) Name and Designation of the contact person. 
g) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank. 
The above details sh all be mandatory for EMD regularization/reconciliation and subsequent 
refund/conversion (as/if applicable).  
 
15  All references to the “Policy for Withholding & Banning of Business Dealings” appearing 
anywhere in the Standard Bidding Documents shall be replaced with “Policy for Debarment from 
Business Dealings”. 
 
16 Address for communication (Physical Document (if any) is to be sent to Address for 
Communication): 
 
AGM (C&M), 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED, 
P.O - PTPS, Distt: Ramgarh, Jharkhand 
PIN - 829119, 
Mobile: 9416212745/9471002992 
Emails: sudebhalder@ntpc.co.in/ajaypal@ntpc.co. 
 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.pvunl.co.in 
or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
17 Registered Office 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U40300DL2015GOI286533 
Website: www.pvunl.co.in 


