 
ABRIDGED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
ABRIDGED INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
EPC Package with Land for Development of Cumulative 100 MW Agri-PV Projects 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
  
IFB No.: NGEL-CS-5837 004 (AgriPV)-9          Date:   16.12.2025 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED (N GEL) invites online bids from eligible bidders on 
Single Stage Two Envelope (i.e. Envelope -I: Techno -Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: 
Price Bid) for “EPC Package with Land for Development of Cumulative 100 MW Agri-
PV Projects” 
  
For the detailed IFB and bidding documents please visit at https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com or https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  or www.ntpc.co.in or 
https://ngel.in/tender from 29.12.2025 or may contact  DGM (CS) / AGM (CS), NTPC 
Green Energy Limited, 4th Floor, NETRA Building  E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater 
Noida, Distt.  Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA, Pin -201306 on Mob No. +91 -
9424140768/ Tel No. +91 -120-2356601 or at  e-mail: abhishekkumar02@ntpc.co.in  / 
omprakash08@ntpc.co.in 
  
 
Registered Office:  
NTPC Green Energy Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003,  
Corporate Identification Number (NGEL): L40100DL2022GOI396282,  
Website: www.ngel.in 
                               
 
 
 
Brief Scope of Work for “EPC Package with Land for Development of Cumulative 
100MW Agri-PV Projects” 
1. Hiring of an expert agency to carry out site selection, soil test, water requirement  study, crop 
selection, DPR preparation, Agri -PV design, PMC during the construction and support for 
onboarding Farmer Producing Organization (FPOs). 
2. Identification and arrangement of required land  and complete transfer of title/ lease deed  of 
land in favo r of NGEL or its subsidiary. including infrastructure development for development 
of cumulative 100 MW Agri -PV projects (Min 10 MW at single location) in states like Bihar, 
Odisha, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. 
 
3. Site - Grading & Clearing of Vegetation  to suit agriculture activity , Topographical Survey, 
Geotechnical Investigation. 
4. Design, engineering, manufacturing, supply, packing and forwarding, transportation, unloading 
storage, installation, testing and commissioning of Solar Photovoltaic plant (including Supply of 
Solar PV modules ), reactive power compensating  devices, erection and commissioning of 
Transmission system from solar plant till ISTS / STU  substation including bay and bus 
extension, if applicable. 
5. Design and Construction of foundation & erection of  Module Mounting Structure  (MMS) 
suitable for Agri-PV projects , including fixing of PV Modules on MMS and PV Modules 
interconnection.  
6. All associated civil works like internal roads, office cum control room building, pooling  
substation, storage sheds, permanent water supply arrangements, approach road etc. 
 
7. All associated electrical works required for interface with grid  (i.e. transformers, panels, 
protection system, cables, metering at 33kV level, grid compliance study as per regulation , 
internal HT cable works , common group control and metering station, common EHV sub -
station(s) with necessary switch gear) and grid extension (i.e. external overhead line up to 
ISTS/ STU  grid sub -station, bay extension or creation of additional facilities at grid sub 
stations, if required). 
 
8. All agreements, statutory approvals and clearances such as power evacuation/ ISTS grid  
connectivity, environmental, central/ state nodal renewable energy agency, electrical, 
forest, etc. as required/ applicable. 
9. Construction of Pre-Engineered type Inverter room (if applicable) with Power conditioning unit 
associated LT and HT switchgear. In case of String Inverter, Construction of Pre -Engineered 
type HT Switchgear room. 
10. Laying and termination of HT Cables (including supply) from  block boundary to 33kV Pooling 
switchgear as per specification. 
 
11. Design, supply, and installation of Module cleaning system including supply and installation of 
all accessories. 
                               
 
 
 
 
12. Construction of internal roads, pathways, construction of Drainage system as per General 
Layout and Topography, internal and boundary fencing, security cabin etc. 
13. Installation of irrigation network and other facilities for agriculture activity. 
14. Arranging power supply and water supply for construction purposes. 
15. SCADA system for remote monitoring and control of Inverters with all hardware & software 
and complete set of Weather Monitoring Station including cloud cover. SCADA, and 
associated equipment shall be installed at identified location in Main Control Room. 
16. Dynamic reactive power compensation equipment to comply with the requirements of dynamic 
reactive power capability at PoI as per the “Report of the Working Group in respect of Data 
Submission Procedure  and Verification of Compliance to CEA Regulations on Technical 
Standards for Connectivity to the Grid by RE Generators July 2022”. 
17. Comprehensive Operation & maintenance of Agri-PV plant including agriculture activity, 
tie-up with FPOs, sale of the Agri pr oduce etc . along with electrical equipment, 
consumables and spare parts for a period of Three years from the date of commissioning of 
full Project capacity. 
18. Supply of Mandatory spares. 
 
 