NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE MATERIALS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
AMC of Honeywell PLC System of 20 TPD CO2 Capture Plant at NTPC Vindhyachal 
for one year. 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.: NTPC/EOC/9900315853 
Bidding Document No.: NTPC/EOC/9900315853 
NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Single Envelope Bidding Basis for aforesaid Package, as per 
the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
1. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by Bidder from the website
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The tender is invited under e-tendering process.
2. This NIT is published on Single Tender basis.
3. SCOPE OF WORK
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the Vol-III,Technical
Specification & SOW of Bidding Document No. As specified above.
4. NTPC intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources.
5. Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the following schedule:
Issuance of IFB 18.12.2025 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
As per Gepnic Portal 
Bid receipt date & time 24.12.2025, 15.00 hrs. 
Date & Time for opening of Bid. 26.12.2025, 15.00 hrs. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL 
Bidder is advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of Govt. for updated bidding 
schedule of the Tender.  
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) 
as specified at the tender portal”. 
6. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / intending Bidder
shall have any claim arising out of such action.
7. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has
extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development
projects.
8. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding
Documents, which may be downloaded from e-Tender website (https://gem.gov.in).
9. Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is
considered to be qualified.
10. This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted with it are confidential and
intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. You
are requested to keep all the information confidential and do not disclose it to any other
third party, persons or firms.
11. Address for communication:
Deepa Verma
Sr. Manager (CM) 
 NTPC Limited 
 Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
e-mail: deepaverma@ntpc.co.in/ ramgopal01@ntpc.co.in
Tel No. 01204946559/ 01204946529