 
 
  
EPC Package for 50 MWac (Phase-I) Solar Power Project at Sampoor, Sri Lanka  PAGE 
1 OF 2 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
TENDER NOTICE 
Trincomalee Power Company Limited (TPCL) 
(A 50:50 joint venture between Sri Lanka's Ceylon Electricity Board and India's 
NTPC Limited) 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
FOR 
             EPC Package for 50 MWac (Phase-I) Solar Power Project at Sampoor, Sri Lanka 
 (International Competitive Bidding) 
 
   IFB No: TPCL/2025/SSPP-Phase I 
Date:18.12.2025 
 
1.0 TPCL is developing 50 MWac Ground Mounted Solar Power Project (“Project”) in Sampoor 
Trincomalee,   Sri Lanka. TPCL invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding 
basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial bid & Envelope-II: Price bid) followed by an e-
Reverse Auction  (from eligible bidders),  at e -tender portal  
https://www.electronictender.global/,  for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work 
briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK: 
Design, engineering, manufacturing, supply, packing and forwarding, transportation, 
unloading storage, installation, testing and commissioning of 50 MWac Solar Photovoltaic 
plant including supply of Solar PV modules and BESS system. Capacity of BESS installation 
should not be less than 20 MW/ 20 MWh.  
Comprehensive Operation & Maintenance of SPV Plant along with electrical equipment, 
BESS, consumables and spare parts for a period of five (05) years from the date of 
commissioning of full project capacity.  
Detailed scope of work, specification, and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, available at the e-tender portal.  
3.0 The bidding schedule for the tender is as under: 
Issuance of NIT 18.12.2025 
Documents Download Date 20.12.2025 , 1700 hrs (IST) 
Pre-Bid Conference date 19.01.2026 
Last date for receipt of queries from prospective 
bidders (if any) 
 
30.01.2026 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) receipt date 18.02.2026 , 1300 hrs (IST) 
Date of opening of Techno-Commercial Bid 19.02.2026 , 1500 hrs (IST) 
Date & Time of Opening of Price Bid Shall be informed later 
Cost of bidding documents 250 USD or equivalent LKR 
Time for completion of the Works 21 Months 
Bidders are advised to visit the e -tender portal for updated bidding schedule of the 
Tender. 
 
 
 
  
EPC Package for 50 MWac (Phase-I) Solar Power Project at Sampoor, Sri Lanka  PAGE 
2 OF 2 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
TENDER NOTICE 
4.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT FOR BIDDERS:  
a. The Bidder should have designed, supplied, erected/ supervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning for minimum two (02) nos. of 50 MWac or 
higher capacity solar PV power plants including associated civil works on EPC basis . 
Such plants shall be in successful operation for a period of not less than two (02) years 
prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. AND,  
The Bidder should h ave experience in successful operation and maintenance of one 
or more solar PV power generation projects with an aggregate capacity of 50 MW ac 
or more for a period of more than two (2) years in the past fifteen (15) years prior to 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
b. The average annual turnover of the bidder should not be less than $38 Million (US 
Dollars Thirty-Eight Million) or in equivalent foreign currency, during the preceding 
three (3) financial years as on date of techno commercial bid opening. Net Worth of 
the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less than 
hundred (100% percent) of bidder’s paid-up share capital. 
c. Bidders to register with local authorities in Sri Lanka at appropriate time. 
Please refer to bidding document for further qualification and eligibility criteria.  
5.0 Employer reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for 
bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
A complete set of bidding documents may be downloaded by any interested bidders from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The bidders can register themselves on the 
website https://www.electronictender.global/ after paying USD 100  registration fees . 
Bidders shall be required to pay cost of bid documents and tender portal charges 
indicated at the tender portal , be fore submission of bids . No hard copy of bidding 
documents shall be issued. 
Bids shall be valid for up to 180 days from the closing date. Bids shall be submitted ONLY 
at the e-tendering portal. All bids shall be accompanied by a Bid-Security of USD 5,85,000. 
Bid Security shall be valid up to a minimum of 45 days beyond the validity of Bid.  
 
Address for Communication 
 TPCL Office, 
2nd Floor, Landmark Building, No. 385, Galle Road,  
Colombo 03, Sri Lanka  
Tel. / Fax: (+94) 112574897  
Email: ceotpcl@gmail.com, ctotpcl1@gmail.com. 
 
In addition, bidder may also communicate to the Project Management Consultant 
(PMC), i.e., NTPC Limited, India at the below mentioned local address:  
 Sl. No.10, Frankfort Place 
Colombo 04, Sri Lanka 
Email: pmctpcl@gmail.com 