 
NTPC Limited  
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS & MATERIALS, SECUNDERABAD 
 
NOTICE INVITING APPLICATIONS (NIA) 
 
ENLISTMENT OF AGENCIES FOR ORGANIZING VVIP PUBLIC EVENTS UNDER SPG 
PROTOCOLS                      
I. NTPC Limited, the largest power utility of India, intends to  Enlistment a gencies for 
organizing VVIP public events under SPG protocols for its various jobs at the Corporate 
Centre, Regional Offices, Projects, Station etc. located all over India. for a period of 03 
Years 
 
The interested applicants may download the application form and Enlistment document and 
submit application online at (https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/)  within the stipulated date. 
 
 
II. Qualifying requirement , Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the 
Enlistment document, which are available on -line ( CCG-11.pdf) as per the following  
schedule: 
 
Enlistment group No.  CCG-11 
Issue of NIA 24.12.2025  
Start of Documents download Date 26.12.2025 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
applicants (if any) 
09.01.2026 
Last Date and Time for Complete 
Application submission  
16.01.2026  
Cost of Enlistment Document/ 
Application Fees            
NIL 
 
Note: Applicants are advised to visit the Vendor Enlistment portal of NTPC  
(https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/) for updated application schedule of the Tender. 
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from applicants, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at NTPC Vendor 
enlistment portal of NTPC”. 
 
III. Qualifying Requirement (QR) – Refer Annexure-I  Enclosed herewith.  
 
IV. A complete set of Enlistment  Documents may be downloaded by any interested Applicant 
from the NTPC Vendor Enlistment  Portal as per specified schedule. The  Enlistment  is 
invited under online mode. 
 
For submitting applications online, the vendor has to create user id and password by  
logging on to https://vdc.ntpc.co.in in  NTPC vendor enlistment portal 
 
The applicants can submit the applications on this portal by attaching documents at 
different predefined fields of the application page of the portal as mentioned in 
Enlistment Document link. 
 
 
V. The NTPC Vendor Enlistment Portal also has  help manuals/videos with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the enlistment process.   
 
No hard copy of Enlistment Documents shall be issued. Applications shall 
be submitted ONLY at the NTPC Vendor Enlistment P ortal ie 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ 
 
VI. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
capabilities and capacity of the Applicants/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ 
group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
               
VII. Transfer of Enlistment Documents by one intending applicant to another is not  
permissible. 
 
VIII. Downloading / Issuance of Enlistment documents to any applicant shall not construe 
that such applicant is considered to be qualified.  
 
IX. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all applications or cancel/withdraw the NIT for 
the subject package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
intending applicant shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
X. Address for Communication  
 
Senior Manager (CS) / AGM (CS) 
Project CC&M 
5th Floor,  NTPC Intelligent Office Building 
SRHQ, Kavadiguda Road,  
Hyderabad, Telangana 500020 
E-mail: vipinsharma01@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Tel. No.: 040-27683448/ 0120-4946535 
E-mail: vipinsharma01@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
XI. Registered Office: 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, 
New Delhi – 110003 
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
Annexure 3 
 
ENLISTMENT OF AGENCIES FOR ORGANIZING VVIP PUBLIC EVENTS UNDER SPG 
PROTOCOLS 
 
   
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS  
The applicant should meet the qualifying requirements stipulated under clause 1.0. In 
addition, the applicant should also meet the requirements stipulated under clause 2.0 
together with the requirements stipulated under Standard terms and conditions of the 
enlistment document..  
1.0 Technical criteria 
1.1 The applicant should have executed at least three (3) large-scale Outdoor Public 
Infrastructure events having executed value of at -least INR 5 crore each, in the last 
three (3) years. 
AND 
1.2 The applicant should have executed at least one (1) large-scale event for the VVIP 
involving SPG (Special Protection Group) protocols, with crowd capacity of 50000 or 
more people with German hanger arrangement in the last three (3) years with the 
State, Central or International Government / PSUs. 
Notes for 1.0 : 
1. Large scale event shall mean Outdoor Mass Contact Programs or Public 
Rallies, or Inauguration Ceremonies involving temporary superstructure 
(German Hangars), civil works, and crowd management.  
 
Note: Indoor seminars, banquets, and hotel -based conferences shall NOT be 
considered. 
 
2. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the applicant should have 
achieved the criteria specified in the above eligibility criteria within the 
preceding three (3) years prior to the date of Techno Commercial bid opening, 
even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed.  
 
3. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date 
of Techno Commercial bid opening duly certified by applicant’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
 
4. Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub -contractor shall NOT be 
considered. 
 
5. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only 
shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, applicant should 
provide the break –up of basic value and taxes. 
 
 
 
Annexure 3 
 
ENLISTMENT OF AGENCIES FOR ORGANIZING VVIP PUBLIC EVENTS UNDER SPG 
PROTOCOLS 
 
   
 
2.0 Financial Criteria 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Applicant, in the preceding three (3) completed 
financial years as on the date of submission, shall not be less than Rs. 500 Lakhs 
(Rupees Five Hundred Lakhs only). 
2.2 Net worth of the Applicant should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its 
paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial year reckoned from 
the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
2.3 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Applicant is not able 
to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results for the three (3) consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the fina ncial p arameters. 
Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding document stating that the financial results of the company are under audit 
as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying financial parameters is not available. 
3.0 Notes for Clause 2.0 above: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 