



Safety Consultancy Contract for NTPC Gadarwara STPP Stage-II Area 
1.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
The Bidder should meet the qualifying requirements of any one of the qualifying routes 
stipulated under clause 1.1. In addition, the Bidder should also meet the requirements 
stipulated under clause 1.2 together with the requirements stipulated under ITB. 
1.1 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
Route 1: 
The bidder should have executed work of 
large project -
duration in a Single(1) work order during the preceding Seven (7) years reckoned as 
on the date of Techno- Commercial bid opening. 
OR 
Route 2: 
The bidder should have executed work of 
large project -
during the preceding seven (7) 
years, reckoned as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening , and have :  
Executed a single work order with a value of  4 Crores, or 
 Executed two work orders, each with a value of  2.5 Crores, or 
  Executed three work orders, each with a value of  2 Crores 
Notes 
a)
 etc.)
b) -The activities involving Erection/Installation of
Plant & equipment.
c) -The project having value of Rs 1000 Crs or more for which
the bidder has provided Safety Management Services. The bidder has to provide the
necessary document/ Certification indicating Project value (of Project area under the
t authority/
Awarding agency.
d)
achieved the criteria specified in the above eligibility criteria within the preceding
seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno Commercial bid opening, even if the total
contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed.
e) In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of
Techno- 
acceptable.
Safety Consultancy Contract for NTPC Gadarwara STPP Stage-II Area 
f) Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of
qualifying requirements.
1.2 FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
1.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than  5 crores. 
(Rupees Five crore ). 
1.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of 
the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be requested to furnish along 
with its Techno- Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, 
supported by the Holding  Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in 
the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
1.2.3 Net worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred percent)  of its 
paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial year reckoned from 
the date of Techno-commercial bid opening. 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies, wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding 
Companies, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of 
their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
(Seventy five percentage) of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 
are individual paid up share capitals. 
1.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.
ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of
the Holding Company.
Safety Consultancy Contract for NTPC Gadarwara STPP Stage-II Area 
 
 
1.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno- 
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable . In case, Bidder is not able to 
submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. 
Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding document stating that the financial results of the company are under audit 
as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.2 above: 
 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 
(iii) and shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India. 
 