 
 
 
Brief Scope of Work for Solar + BESS Package for at ABVTPS 
Project of CSPGCL 
 
Design, Engineering, Supply, Packing and Forwarding, Transportation, Unloading, 
Storage, Installation and Commissioning of grid connected 6 MW floating solar PV project 
coupled with 6 MW /24 MWhr Battery Energy Storage System  (BESS) on turnkey basis. 
Further the bidder has to obtain site-specific data from the owner in preparation for 
developing installation and implementation plans. 
Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical features/specification of 
equipment/ systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Document shall be final and 
binding. 
 
1.0 SCOPE OF WORK FOR Solar + BESS: 
 
Successful Bidder shall be responsible for providing all equipment, component, and 
services necessary to install a fully functional floating solar PV plant with BESS.  
 
1.01 Design, Engineering, Supply, Packaging and Forwarding, Transportation, 
Unloading, Storage, Construction, Erection, Testing, Commissioning of grid 
connected 6 MW floating solar PV project coupled with 6 MW /24 MWhr Battery 
Energy Storage System (BESS) on turnkey basis. BESS capacity to be considered 
is the rated AC discharge capacity at Point of injection/Metering. Power evacuation 
system and equipment including integration in existing 11 kV Station Bus is 
considered in the scope of Bidder along with any modification with all material and 
service in the switchgear if required. 
1.02 Performance conditions of Solar + ESS Project, such as Annual Peak Hour Energy 
Availability, Off-peak hour capacity utilization factor etc. will be mentioned in 
detailed specifications. 
1.03 Bidder has to bid for the complete project including Floating solar , BESS and power 
evacuation works. 
1.04 Designed life of BESS system including that of battery shall be of minimum 15 years 
(considering daily single cycle operation) from the date of successful completion of 
trial run.  
1.05 Comprehensive Operation and Maintenance (O&M) works of FSPV along with 
BESS system for 5 years from the date of successful completion of trial run shall be 
in scope of Bidder. 
1.06 Bidder has to provide the 10 year AMC and LTSA of the BESS for performance 
after 5 year O&M. 
1.07 Grid compliance study, Reactive power compensations and power quality 
compliance for entire solar + BESS system upto grid interconnection point shall be 
in scope of bidder. 
1.08 Project shall comprise of Floating Solar PV, BESS containers, Battery Management 
System (BMS), Energy Management System (EMS) and SCADA, Power 
Conversion System (PCS), Protection system, Communication System, HT & LT 
System, Auxiliary power system, Monitoring & Control system, Fire Fighting, remote 
control and monitoring, HT & LT Transformers, Power evacuation Infrastructure, 
and all other associated materials and accessories necessary for trouble free 
operation and maintenance of the solar + BESS system. 
1.09 BMS and EMS of the BESS should comply with the latest IS or/and IEC or/and IEEE 
standards. Fire safety of the Battery and container should be in line with latest 
Indian or/and international standards. 
1.10 Floating solar PV plant should be as per Technical Specification of Contract and 
latest guidelines of CEA, CERC and LDC. 
1.11 Bidder has to ensure the Minimum Guaranteed generation from floating Solar PV 
plant. 
1.12 Site-grading, clearing of vegetation, as required. 
1.13 Providing power supply and water supply for construction purposes. 
1.14 Construction of control room with switchgear room, with all electrical fitting and 
furniture, security cabin etc. 
1.15 All associated electrical and civil works required for interfacing with grid (i.e. 
transformer(s), switchgear, protection system, cables, etc). 
1.16 Metering philosophy should be as per site requirement and metering system will be 
in the scope of bidder. 
1.17  Provide documentation for design and expected performance through design 
calculations, software, design drawings, equipment drawings, and modifications to 
the existing drawings.  
1.18  Develop detailed start up and site acceptance plan. 
1.19  Provide training for the operators, engineers, technicians and maintenance 
personnel.  
1.20  Supply any special equipment and tools required for the operation and maintenance 
of the project.  
1.21  Provide a warranty for the battery energy storage system (BESS) and its 
constituents equipment as per technical specification. 
1.22 All other details will be provided in the IFB.  
 