1 | P a g e  
 
 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A Joint Venture of NTPC Ltd. & SAIL) 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
NIT NO. : 0230/SSC/CS/OT/51/2025-26/2800010231    D ated: 31/12/2025 
NSPCL-Bhilai invites tenders for following package of CPP-II Rourkela.: 
Sl. 
No. 
Pkg. 
No. 
Description of Work Estimated 
Value (Rs) 
Cost of 
Tender 
Document 
(Rs.) 
Contract 
Period 
Sale Start 
Date / 
Sale Close 
Date 
Last Date & 
Time for 
Receipt of 
Bid EMD(Rs)  
01 SSC/ 
25015 
Repair of Bitumen Macadam road 
(BT) from back side RSP 
Modernization store to ash gate along 
patrolling road at NSPCL-Rourkela 
1,11,97,919.08/-  
NIL 
(Online 
tender 
form) 
06 
Months  31/12/25 21/01/26 
15:00Hrs 2,00,000/- 21/01/26 
Tender Documents can be downloaded from SRM Portal:  https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/port al after paying 
Tender Fee amount of  Rs. 2655 (Rs.2250.00 + Rs. 405.00 GST@18%).   
Online Tender fee/EMD submission Procedure help doc ument can be accessed at link - “SRM Online TFE & E MD Payment 
Manual” on SRM Portal website: -   https://www.nspcl.co.in/pages/nspcl-srm-portal. 
Abridged NIT along with Qualifying Requirement may be viewed at www.ntpctender .ntpc.co.in.  The details of tender for e-
bidding shall be available at https://sapportal.nspclsrijan.co.in:50200/irj/portal (RFx/NIT No.: 2800010231). 
Tender document fee/EMD should be submitted online.  Tender Fee and EMD can also be paid offline in the  form of Demand 
Draft / Pay Order / Banker's Cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payabl e at Bhilai  and is to be 
submitted at following address: 
AGM(SSC-C&M), NSPCL Bhilai –Expansion Site, Near Pu rena Village, PO-Bhilai (East) Distt. - Durg, C.G. 490021 Tel.: 0788-
2347063.  
Request for Tender Fee Exemption (if applicable) al ong with relevant Document (UDYAM CERTIFICATE) shou ld be submitted 
at the following email ids: pratibhasoni@nspcl.co.in  or ushakumai@nspcl.co.in or sudeepk.das@nspcl.co.in  so that the 
eligible agency is enabled to download the tender document and participation. 
Instruction for e-bidding:  
1.  The bidder must have Digital Signature Certificate (Class-III). 
2.  The bidders who already have valid SRM User ID:  
a) Login the SRM Portal and click on RFx and Auction button. 
b) Rfx will be available to view for all the bidders which are already having valid SRM User ID’s.  
c) Interested bidders have to register first agains t the Bid invitation by clicking on “Register” butt on placed   into Rfx 
header segment. 
d) Once Registration step & Tender fee submission i s done by bidder and the tender fee received by the  NSPCL and 
updated into the system then Bidder could be able t o “Create Response” and submit the bids against the  Bid 
invitation   into the system.  
3.  New Bidders who are not having SAP/ERP Vendor Code and / or SRM User ID:  
a)  In case a new bidder wants to participate for a  particular Bid invitation in SRM portal, the bidde r first of all has to 
submit the filled Registration Form & EFT Form alon g with required supporting documents e.g. as specif ied in forms, 
till 10/01/2026 to C&M department, NSPCL Bhilai in hard copy or sc anned copy through e-mail at 
pratibhasoni@nspcl.co.in or ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in. 
b)  C&M department will initiate the process for ve ndor ID creation in SAP & send the bidder’s SRM Cre dentials (User ID 
along with initial Password) to them. 
c)  After creation of SRM Credentials the step 2 (above) shall be followed by the bidder.  
All Corrigendum/Modifications/Updates for the above  NITs shall only be published on the aforesaid web sites.  
For any Technical Support, please contact SRM helpdesk at 0788-2282414. 
2 | P a g e  
 
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work: Repair of Bitumen Macadam road (BT) from back side RSP Modernization store to ash gate along patrolling 
road at NSPCL-Rourkela.  
 
 Qualifying Requirement 
The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they fulfil the  following 
Qualifying Requirements.  
1 Technical Criteria 
1.1 
 
The bidder should have executed the following simil ar works within the preceding 07 years as on the da te 
of technical bid opening which fulfils either of the following criteria as follows : 
1.2 (i) 01 (One) similar completed works costing not less than the amount equal to Rs.89.57akhs 
OR 
(ii) 02 (Two) similar completed works costing not less than the amount equal to Rs.55.98 Lakhs  each. 
OR 
(iii) 03 (Three) similar completed works costing not less than the amount equal to Rs.44.78 Lakhs  each. 
Note (I)  Similar work means:  Road Construction work in volving WMM/Bituminous Macadam/Bituminous 
Concrete.  
 
(II) Completed works means: The executed / complete d portion of BOQ, even if the work has not been 
completed in totality (Subject to furnishing of documentary Proof of executed value of the work in the form 
of copies of RA Bills, Relevant PO Copy and clients completion certificate/Final Deviation Statement). 
 
(III) Contract for pure earth work/ pure steel fabr ication/Pure RCC work/Mechanical erection job / pur e 
building works/ pure water supply & drainage piping work/ pure aluminum work shall not be considered for 
qualification. 
 
(IV) Reference work executed by bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided the certificate 
issued by the main contractor is duly certified by the Project Authority specifying the work executed by the 
sub-contractor in support of the qualifying requirements. 
 
(V) The bidder shall submit the Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss Account for the specified peri od. In 
case where Audited results for the preceding FY are  not available, certificate of financial statements  from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be consi dered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to su bmit 
the Certificate from practicing Chartered Account c ertifying its financial parameters, the audited res ults of 
three consecutive financial years preceding the las t financial year shall be considered for evaluating  the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed  in 
the bidding documents stating that the financial re sults of the company are under audit as on the date  of 
Techno-commercial bid opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available. 
 
(VI)     Other income shall not be considered for arriving annual turnover. 
 
(VII)    All the values mentioned in the Clause 1.2 and 2.1 are exclusive of taxes and duties. 
 
2 Financial Criteria  
2.1 The average annual turnover of the bidder in the pr eceding three (03) financial years as on the date o f 
Techno-Commercial bid opening shall not be less than Rs.111.97 Lakhs. 
 
3 | P a g e  
 
 
 
NIT Conditions  
 
1.  Bid documents will be issued to all the parties on their request (cost of tender document to be made b y a crossed 
demand draft / pay order / banker's cheque in favou r of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payable at Bhi lai ) 
for issue of bid documents without prima-facie exam ination of their qualification status. However, iss ue of bid 
documents shall not mean that bidders are considere d qualified. Tender document fee will not be refund ed. 
Request for tender documents received after the last date as mentioned above due to delays postal/courier services 
shall not be entertained. 
 
2.  NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for bids withou t assigning any 
reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
3.  Agencies are advised to visit the site to familiarize themselves with the nature of work and the site conditions. 
 
4.  If the last date of receiving application and date of bid opening coincide with a holiday, the date wi ll be shifted to 
the next working day. 
 
5.  BEING WORKS CONTRACT, MSE BENEFIT IS NOT APPLICABLE.  
 
6.  Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audit ed Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever applicab le) 
undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Char tered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders sub mit in 
support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (Q R), will carry Unique Document Identification Numbe r (UDIN) 
generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI).  
 
7.  Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer  reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ hi s collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warr ant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verification s by Employer shall include but not be limited to t he 
assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ ban ker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of credent ials. A negative 
determination of such assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid.  
 
8.  The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered to ascertain the bidder’s 
compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The Employer at its discretion may seek any c larification 
and/or documentary evidence only for the reference works as mentioned above. However, no change or 
substitution of the reference works by new/addition al plant for conforming to the specified qualifying  Requirement 
shall be sought, offered or permitted”. 
   
9.  “Bidders are required to furnish the details of the past experience like authentic Work Orders/Purchase  
Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, client  certificates, completion certificate, etc. in supp ort of 
meeting the Qualifying Requirements based on which selection is to be made as per format in Attachment -3 
FORM FOR QUALIFICATION DETAILS (mandatory) . However, if any of the Work Orders/Purchase Order s/Letter of 
Awards/Contract Agreements pertains to the work exe cuted by Bidder for NSPCL in the past, then in resp ect of 
such Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/C ontract Agreements, Bidder shall not be required to  
enclose Client Certificate along with its Bid.” 
 
i)  All the bidders, who are required to submit the  details of the past experiences, shall submit all the documents, in 
support of Technical Qualification Requirements (su ch as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contrac t 
Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certifi ed and verified for authenticity from Independent S tatutory 
Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from boo ks of accounts, records and other relevant document s, 
Bidders can also submit a certificate issued by the ir Independent Statutory Auditor certifying the dat a required for 
meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly ce rtified and verified documents from their Statutory  Auditors or 
specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR a long with a certificate regarding verification of a uthenticity of 
documents as per the format placed at Annexure-II U ndertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ or Annexure -III  
Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted  by the bidder in support of meeting Technical QR s hall be 
digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
 
   iii)    In case documents are certified & verifi ed for authenticity through TPIA, the verification and certification of 
authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of  the following TPIAs:  
 
4 | P a g e  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18)TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not certified by 
specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documen ts, shall 
not be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be liable for rejection. 
 
(iv)   The Bidder shall be responsible to get their  documents/ credentials in support of Qualifying Re quirements verified 
& certified by their Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or s pecified TPIAs. All the costs pertaining to third p arty 
verification and certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be borne by the Bidder. E mployer shall 
have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall not be liable for any claim/ dis pute 
between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor. 
 
10.     NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or a ll bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bid s/NIT without assigning any 
reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.  
 
Address for communication :  
AGM  (SSC-C&M) 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED,  
Post Office: BHILAI (East), Distt. : Durg (CHHATTISGARH), Pin: 490 021 
 : 0788–2282446, 2347063 
Email:  ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in; pratibhasoni@nspcl.co.in 
 
 