                              NTPC Renewable Energy Limited  
                                     (A wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited)    
Corporate Centre  
 
SALIENT TECHNICAL FEATURES 
 
“Salient Technical Features of the systems /equipment/ services are mentioned below. These Salient 
Technical Features are mentioned only to facilitate the prospective bidders to prima -facie understand 
the requirements under the tender and shall not in any way limit or alter the scope of work and 
technical features/specification of equipment/ systems/ services covered in the Bidding Documents. 
Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical features/specification of equipment/ 
systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Document shall be final and binding.” 
Salient technical features of the proposed project are as follows: 
Name of the Project 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 250MW SOLAR WITH 
50MW/200MWh BESS PROJECT at SITAPUR, U.P." 
 
Project capacity 250MW Solar with 50MW/200MWh BESS 
Block/Plot capacity 
 
One Block of 250MW Solar with 50MW/200MWh BESS  
 
1. One Block of 250MW Solar with 50MW/200MWh BESS Project as an EPC Package.  
2. Complete Design, engineering, manufacturing, supply, packing and forwarding, transportation, 
unloading, storage, installation, testing and commissioning of Solar Photo Voltaic Plant  with 
BESS including supply of Solar PV Modules. 
3. MMS as per Technical Specification – Fixed Tilt or Tracker based  (Cost per MU Based 
Bidding) 
4. String / Central Inverter with minimum cumulative capacity to meet the respective block 
capacity with Maximum Power Point Tracking technology along with associated cables, 
cabling, Transformer & Switchgears. 
5. PPC, SCADA, & Weather Monitoring System. 
6. Electrical works and associated switchgear equipment as per technical specification. 
7. Evacuation of power to 33kV Switchgear of Owner’s 33/220kV Substation(s), as per SLD. 
8. Module cleaning system  (Dry Robotic Type only)  including supply and installation of all 
accessories. 
9. Integration of BESS equipment with Solar plant Infra to commission a complete BESS system 
integrated with Solar plant and Grid. 