
 
OFFER AGAINST  
 
NTPC/MBRAPP/EOI/01 DATED 08.01.2026 
 
To, 
 
GM (C&MM)  
MBRAPP 
BANSWARA 
 
Subject: Offer for Hiring of Bachelor Accommodation on Choice – cum – Selection 
basis for NTPC LTD- MBRAPP at Banswara-on lease basis for 4+1 years 
 
Dear Sir, 
  
Please find my best offer against your enquiry NTPC/MBRAPP/EOI/01 DATED 
08.01.2026_  Hiring/leasing of Bachelor Accommodation for MBRAPP at Banswara, 
Rajasthan. 
 
I. Important Dates: 
II. Last date for submission of offers against EOI: 31 Jan 2026, 5PM. Offer 
submitted after last  date for submission of offers against EOI shall not be 
accepted. 
III. Offer submitted via any other mode (for e.g. email) shall not be accepted. 
IV. Only Hard copy is to be submitted in the tender box at MBRAPP, Mahi 
Banswara Rajasthan Atomic Power Project (MBRAPP), Anushakti Vidhyut 
Nigam Ltd. (NTPC LTD),       PO Napla , Tehsil Chhoti Sarwan ,  Dist.- 
Banswara, Rajasthan 327001.  
V. Bidder shall mention Subject on top of outer Envelope “ Offer for Hiring of 
Bachelor Accommodation on Choice – cum – Selection basis for NTPC 
LTD- MBRAPP at Banswara-on lease basis for 4+1 years”. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
(Signature of Authorized person) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENVELOPE 1 
 
TECHNICAL DATA AND FORMS 
 
to be Put in separate sealed envelope Indicating TECHNICAL DATA AND FORMS 
 inside outer envelope 
  
General Information of the Property (To be filled by Bidder) 
 
Enquiry  Enquiry NTPC/MBRAPP/EOI/01 DATED 08.01.2026 
 
Subject: Offer for Hiring of Bachelor Accommodation on Choice – cum 
– Selection basis for NTPC- MBRAPP at Banswara-on lease basis for 
4+1 years  
 
SN Item Description Remarks 
1 
 
Property details 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner / Firm/ Company/ HUF 
 
 
 
 
 
Location with Address/Area, Pin code no: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Email Id:  
 
Mobile No:  
 
PAN  
 
GST No. 
 
 
 
CIN No. (Registration certificate to be 
submitted, if applicable). 
 
 
Property to be offered:  
a) Independent Property : Entire premises 
to be offered  
b) Multistorey Building, Floors offered on 
lease (Ground, First, second or duplex 
(pl mention) 
 
Note : In case of Multistorey  Building, partial 
leasing of property shall be accepted. However,  
in case of Independent Property partial leasing 
will not be considered.  
 
 
 
Lift is must for property offered with floors more 
than Ground and First & Second Floor. Lift 
should have a capacity of minimum 6 
passengers or more (approx. 450kg for 6 
passengers) & should have DG/battery 
backup. 
 
Total Built up Area offered unit in sq ft. other 
than parking (Min. 2500 sq. ft.)   
 
 
Reserved Parking Space of owner of offered 
premises for min 8 vehicles (SUV’s).   
No. of rooms offered with attached washroom/ 
Bathroom (requirement min. 12 rooms with 
attached toilet/bathroom) 
 
No. of rooms without washroom offered  
 
Common washroom for Visitors   
 
Space for set up of One Pantry/Kitchen facility 
(min 100 sq ft) 
 
 
Ceiling Fan in each room   
 
Two (02) LED lights of min. 20W each and one 
(01) night lamp min. 3W in each room  
One (01) LED bulb 10W in each washroom   
 
One (01) exhaust fan in each washroom.  
 
Provision for AC connection in each room (for 
min 1.5 T)  
Provision for Geyser connection in each 
washroom  
Backup for Uninterrupted power supply (DG 
Set min. 25 KVA).   
  
Bid/Offer is to be submitted only by the 
registered owner or legal heir of Premises and 
payment will be made in the name of owner 
only.  
No third-party bid/ application / agreement is 
acceptable and will be rejected outrightly. 
 
Power of attorney for release of payment will 
not be accepted.  
 
2 GST %, if applicable 
If a GST-registered tenant (here NTPC LTD) 
rents a commercial property from an 
unregistered landlord (here Lessor), the NTPC 
LTD shall pay the applicable GST directly to the 
 
government under the RCM. The landlord in 
this scenario does not need to collect or file the 
GST.  
3 Other Taxes & Compliance   
 
4 Lease Start Within 30 Days from the date of the 
letter of Intent/Award 
 
 
 
5 Validity of offer/bid 120 days 
 
6 Type of Connection of Electricity and capacity 
(suitable 3 phase connection)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
TERMS & CONDITIONS FOR LEASING GUEST HOUSE AT RATLAM 
 
  
1. The property being offered should be independent/Multistorey  with good condition 
and be situated within 03 kms radius of Collectorate Office, Banswara.  
 
2. In case single property is not available with 12 rooms, two adjacent (side by side) 
independent houses will also be acceptable meeting the all eligible criteria from a 
single Owner / Firm/ Company/ HUF.  
 
3.   Bid/Offer is to be submitted only by the registered owner or legal heir of Premises 
and payment will be made in the name of owner only. No third-party bid/ application 
/ agreement is acceptable and will be rejected outrightly. Power of attorney for release 
of payment will not be accepted.  
 
4. The lease agreement will be for minimum 04 years, with a provision for extension of 
01 year as required by NTPC LTD, MBRAPP.  
 
5. All statutory clearances, as applicable & local authority clearances as applicable, 
need to be submitted by owner of the property. 
 
6. The property must be in the name of the legal owner and free from any 
disputes/litigations. Ownership documents must be submitted. 
 
7. In case of Multistorey Building, partial leasing of property shall be accepted. However, 
in case of Independent Property partial leasing will not be considered. 
 
8. Multistorey Building should have an emergency exit facility. 
 
9. Clean & Proper approach road (motorable for 4-wheeler) to the property is mandatory. 
 
10. The offered premises should be in good condition with safe structure (RCC), pest-
free, and compliant with fire safety norms as per Local Municipal Norms.   
11. The Property shall have unhindered entry and exit for 24 hours for man and material.  
 
12. All rooms need to have proper ventilation and windows, attached bathrooms, 
provision for 24-hour water, electricity and other basic facilities like provision for fitting 
of TV, Telephone in each room. 
 
13. The offered property shall be with Minium Built up area 2500 Sq Ft. with minimum 12 
rooms with attached washrooms.  
a. Each room should have a minimum area of 150 sq. ft. (excluding washroom).  
b. All rooms must have attached washrooms with Western Toilet with hot and 
cold water (mixer fitting) facility.  
c. Other rooms, if available, should have access to common washroom with 
western / Indian toilet facilities  
d. Lift is a must for buildings having more than ground, first and second floor. For all 
floors above second floor, lift must have direct access to each floor. (No climbing 
of stairs to reach any floor for taking lift) 
e. Provision for installation of RO connection in Kitchen shall be provided by the 
owner. 
f. Fans installed in each room with Two (02) LED lights of min. 20W each and 
one (01) night lamp min. 3W in each room  
g. The property should have provisions for installation of 1 nos. split AC in each 
room & hall. 
h. The offered premises should be in well maintained condition with fresh painting 
done with all the required running taps / plumbing items, electrification and 
required sockets before handing over.  
i. Housekeeping/waste disposal arrangement must be feasible from 
municipal/local authority system. 
j. Provision of inverter point wiring is required and should be provided by the 
Owner in each room. 
k. Interior and exterior of the demised premises should be in good order and 
condition (reasonable wear and tear and damage by fire earthquake, flood, 
tempest, lightning, inevitable force or accident expected).  
l. A round-the-clock water facility should be available in each room. The property 
shall have running water connection with underground / overhead tank storage 
with Minimum 5000 Liter water capacity with motor and pump. Each toilet and 
kitchen should have provision of running water 
 
14. In addition to the above, parking space for minimum of 8 SUV/MPV should be 
available without any interference of the nearby houses. Corner end property shall 
be preferred  
  
15. The property shall have valid Separate Electricity Connection with no backlog of due 
electricity charges.  In case of selection of property, having single phase connection, 
the Owner should obtain 3 phase connection with minimum sanction load of 25 KW 
before lease agreement at his own expenses.  
 
16. The owner shall have no objection for installation of any electrical & electronic 
equipment / other equipment /furniture / connection – Internet Connection /WIFI, etc 
as required by NTPC LTD, MBRAPP.  
 
17. Before lease agreement, both the parties would jointly inspect the premises for the 
required initial maintenance works and the same will be complied by the Owner within 
30 days and list of available equipment and accessories will be handed over to the 
NTPC LTD, MBRAPP and the same will be incorporated in a separate sheet of the 
agreement. After completion of the contract period, all the equipment will be handed 
over to the lessor (Owner) by the Lessee (NTPC LTD, MBRAPP) on as-is-where-is 
basis.  
 
18. All the statutory / non statutory payment / taxes will be borne by the Lessor/Owner (only 
electricity & water consumption bills will be paid by the Lessee (NTPC LTD, MBRAPP).  
 
19. In case of Multistorey  Building, Electricity Bill shall be segregated if Property is partially 
Leased/rented out  and charges for leased portion on actual metering will be reimbursed 
by NTPC-MBRAPP .  Common connection and electricity charges for lift is included in 
Monthly Maintenance charges which is included in Lease Amount. No separate 
payment will be made by  NTPC LTD / MBRAPP , on account of maintenance, to the owner 
of the premises.    
 
20. Escalation @ 5% in rent will be admissible from the 2nd year (date of completion of 
1st  year) onwards over the finalized/offered rent till 4 th year and a further 5% 
escalation in the 5th year (if extended).  
 
21. Lease Calculation are as follows (example calculation)   
Year  Rent 
(e.g.)  
Escalation   
1st Year  
(1ST 12 Month) 
25000 NIL   
2nd Year  
(13th to 24th  Month) 
26250 5%  
3rd Year  
(25th to 36th Month)  
27563 5%  
4th Year  
(37th to 48th Month)  
28941 5%  
5th Year 
(49th to 60th Month)   
30388 5%  
 
22. Payment Terms: One Bill shall be raised per month. Payment will be made within 20-
30 days on submission of invoice with all required supporting documents after 
issuance of Contract and signing of Agreement by both parties. 
 
23. Contract can be terminated during the contract period only with mutual consent of 
both the parties with minimum notice period of 6 months.  
24. Enclosed Cover letter, Summary of Bid, Schedule of Quantity, Documents duly signed 
and stamped on each page as a token of confirmation of compliance of the same. 
   
25. The quotations will be evaluated based on technical compliance and financial will be 
opened of only those owners fulfilling MBRAPP’s Specifications/Requirements. 
Further having the most competitive financial offer. 
 
26. Financial evaluation shall be carried out in this case and lowest bidder (L1) on 
monthly lease / rental value will be considered for award.   
 
27. Overall L1 price offered by technically suitable party irrespective of no of rooms 
(minimum rooms to be offered is 12) shall be considered for award.  
 
Note :  
The Lessee (NTPC LTD, MBRAPP) is empowered to accept or reject any 
property on choice – cum – selection basis. The Lessee (NTPC LTD, MBRAPP) 
further reserve the right to select any other suitable property, even if it falls 
outside the initially specified coverage area, subject to applicable terms and 
conditions of EOI. 
  
Additional Information (Scope of Lessee - NTPC LTD- MBRAPP)  
VI. Furniture, air-conditioners, RO and other electronic equipment will be arranged 
by NTPC LTD- MBRAPP. 
VII. Electricity and water charges will be borne by MBRAPP–NTPC LTD on actual 
basis. 
VIII. GST will be paid under RCM, if applicable.  
IX. All maintenance, like Civil, electricals, Plumbing, Carpentry and Sanitation, 
shall be within the scope of NTPC LTD, MBRAPP . Separate maintenance 
contract will be issued from NTPC LTD, MBRAPP.  
 
Submission of Offers: 
Interested parties/property owners may submit their Expression of Interest (EOI) with 
complete details of the property, including: 
I. Location and address of the property and carpet area 
II. Number and size of rooms. 
III. Facilities available (parking, water, kitchen, dining, etc.) 
IV. Ownership details with copy of documents 
V. Rent expected (exclusive of electricity charges) 
VI. Technically Suitable offers shall be considered for opening of Financial Bids. 
VII. L-1 offer from technically acceptable bids shall be selected. 
VIII. Overall L1 price offered by technically suitable party irrespective of no of rooms 
(minimum rooms to be offered is 12) shall be considered for award 
IX. Application will be issued online and from following address also and duly filed 
in application is to be submitted in sealed cover to: 
Project Director (MBRAPP)  
Mahi Banswara Rajasthan Atomic Power Project (MBRAPP) 
Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd. (NTPC LTD) 
      In front of Deri Bus Stand , along NH927A, Chhoti Sarwan block ,  Dist.- Banswara, 
Rajasthan 327001 
Note:  
1) Technically Suitable offers shall be considered for opening of Financial Bids. 
2) L-1 offer from technically acceptable bids shall be selected.  
3) Overall L1 price offered by technically suitable party irrespective of no of rooms 
(minimum rooms to be offered is 12) shall be considered for award 
4) The premises offered would be made ready for offer by ____________  
Strike out whichever is not applicable. 
 
Note: The Lessee (NTPC LTD, MBRAPP) is empowered to accept or reject any 
property on choice – cum – selection basis. The Lessee (NTPC LTD, MBRAPP) 
further reserve the right to select any other suitable property, even if it is fall 
outside the initially specified coverage area, subject to applicable terms and 
condition of EOI.       
Authorized Signature of the Bidder with seal   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF PROPERTY 
ON CHOICE – CUM – SECLECTION BASIS 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION  
 
Sr 
No. 
Criteria (Whether qualifying on this parameter)  
 
Qualified or not  Maximum 
marks  
Marks 
Obtained 
(shall be 
filled by 
NTPC)  
1. The property being offered should be 
independent and in good condition and be 
situated within 3 Kms from District Collectorate, 
Banswara.   
0 to 1 Kms : 10 Marks  
1 kms to 2 Kms 8 Marks  
2 kms to 3 kms 6 Marks  
Beyond 3 kms : 4 Marks  
 10  
2. Preference will be given to the property located 
on Banswara Udaipur Road / Old Housing Board 
Area  
 10  
3. The property should have a minimum of 12 
rooms. 
 10  
4. Each room should have a minimum area of 150 
sq. ft. (excluding washroom). 
 9  
5. 
 
Each room must have an attached bathroom 
with proper ventilation, western WC, and 
continuous water supply. A round-the-clock water 
facility should be available on each floor. 
 9  
6. Uninterrupted electricity supply with separate 
metering arrangements is required. Provision of 
inverter point wiring is required. 
 9  
7. Adequate open/covered parking space for 
minimum 8 vehicles must be available inside or 
adjacent to the property 
 9  
8. Clean & Proper approach road (motorable for 4-
wheeler) to the property 
 9  
     
 Total Marks   75  
9 Observation of committee on Site visit and 
Inspection of the offered premises for its 
surrounding environment/ambience/ 
locality/gated community etc. / ventilation and 
approach to property By Committee members 
 25  
 Grand Total   100  
Note : 
1. In any property is disqualified based any of the above criteria then it will not be 
considered for further evaluation.  
2. Property having Less than 12 rooms shall not be considered for evaluation 
3. Minimum criteria for acceptance of technical bid shall be 75 out of 100 
4. The final decision of the Committee will be final and binding on all concerned, in this 
regard. The committee has the discretionary power to select or reject any or all the 
properties that are not suitable as per the requirements decided by the Management. 
ENVELOPE 2 
 
FINANCIAL BID 
 
(to be Put in separate sealed envelope Indicating Financial bid inside outer envelope) 
 
 
 
 
  
FINANCIAL BID 
(to be Put in separate sealed envelope Indicating Financial bid inside outer envelope) 
 
Subject: Offer for Hiring of Bachelor Accommodation on Choice – cum – Selection 
basis for NTPC LTD- MBRAPP at Banswara-on lease basis for 4+1 years  
SOQR (Schedule of Quantity and Rates) (IN RS) 
Name of the Owner  
Property Address:  
S. 
N 
ITEM Description Rate offered per month 
for initial 12 Months as 
per Terms and 
conditions refereed 
above.  
Excluding GST 
A B C 
1 
 
 
Hiring of Property at Banswara, Rajasthan as per 
technical Specification  
(with min 12 rooms) for first year starting from 01/01/2026 
to 31/12 /2026 
NOTE:  
a) Maintenance of the property (applicable for 
Multistorey  building only) Viz. Electricity charges 
for lift, maintenance charges for lift, maintenance 
of common facilities, water supply facility and any 
other statutory and non-statutory expenses 
relating premises are inclusive in quoted rate.   
b) A Maximum of 5% escalation will be paid in 
succeeding year rental rate/value over 
preceding year MONTHLY/YEARLY LEASE.  
 
 
Rs ________/- Per month  
 Total  Rs ________/- Per month  
 
 Financial evaluation shall be carried out in this case and lowest bidder (L1) on monthly 
lease / rental including maintenance, quoted rate will be considered for award.  
 Overall L1 price offered by technically suitable party irrespective of nos. of rooms 
(minimum rooms to be offered is 12) shall be considered for award 
 
1. Note: The lease agreement will be for minimum 04 years, with a provision for 
extension of 01 year as required by NTPC LTD, MBRAPP.  
Rate In Words: (Rupees) ___________________________________________Only 
(Excluding GST)  
 
Request Remarks:  
AUTHORISED SIGNATORY 
Stamp/Seal 
Owner of the property 