 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Govt. of India enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
Invites 
 
Expression of Interest 
(EOI) 
 
                                                for Proof of Concept (POC) 
 
                            On 
 
“Deployment of On-Premise 5G Captive 
Non-Public Network (CNPN) and its 
Applications”

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS OF EOI 
 
 
This EOI document comprises of the following sections: 
 
(i) Section-I: Invitation for Expression of Interest 
(ii) Section-II: Information to APPLICANTs 
(iii) Section-III: Application Form and Annexures 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 
                            SECTION-I: 
 
 
                                 INVITATION 
                                        FOR 
                 EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 

 
 
 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
EOI No.: STN-ENGG/2025-26/001 Date: ------------ 
 
 
Expression of Interest for Demonstration and Deployment of on premise 5G Non-
Public Captive Network (CNPN) and its application 
 
1.0 NTPC is India’s largest power utility with installed capacity  of more than 85,000 MW 
(including its JVs). The company is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk 
power. NTPC is having pan -India presence with coal based, gas based, Hydro, Wind and 
Solar plants.  
2.0 The evolution to fifth generation  (5G) mobile networks marks a transformative era in 
telecommunications, offering remarkable enhancements in data transfer speeds, reduced 
latency, and the capability to support an extensive number of connected devices.  Telecom 
Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) is promoting Captive Non-Public Networks (CNPNs) to facilitate 
the digitization of key sectors. 
3.0 NTPC is also looking for deployment of on-premises private 5G captive Non-Public network 
(CNPN) for power plants and is exploring 5G CNPN intensive use cases for formulating the 
5G applications for power plant areas such as safety, surveillance, logistics and IOT device 
integration (Process parameters like pressure, temperature,  vibration etc.).  
4.0 The present EOI is for the installation of CNPN using 5G technology which offers significant 
potential benefits, including real-time monitoring and control, reliable high-speed, and low-
latency communication networks, enhanced operational efficiency and robust cybersecurity 
frameworks to support modern power plant operations.  
5.0 NTPC invites Expression of Interest (EOI) from willing APPLICANTs from India for 
installation of On-Premise 5G network alongwith applications such as:  
a. Safety Application(smart helmets etc) 
b.  IoT-based monitoring 
c.  Mobile Handset 
d.  Intercom 
e. Vehicle Smart Tag 
f. Logistics (Supply chain monitoring) 
g. Camera on Demand 
h. Geo Fencing 
i. Automation solutions or any other similar application in Thermal Power Plants. 
j.  
5.1 For the complete scheme Network cyber security  to be applied.   Successful Case 
studies to be provided for above showing the coverage area of the 5G CNPN network . 
Applicants to provide d etails of previous work orders  in deployment of On-premise 5G 
network (CNPN)  with successful running years.  
 
 
 
 
5.2  Based on the details provided by the applicants, criteria for technical evaluation and 
shortlisting of applicants for on premise 5G network (as POC) based on use cases shall 
be decided. Based on technical evaluation and successful case studies , NTPC shall 
decide the modalities for engagement of vendor for the POC work. 
 
6.0   Eligibility for Participation in EOI 
 
 The APPLICANT shall be a Company / Sole Proprietorship / Partnership / Limited 
Liability Partnership / Consortium / Cooperative Society registered in India . The 
vendor should have valid UL License with the provision of CNPN. 
 The APPLICANT shall submit details of on premise 5G network deployment and its 
use cases/running applications preferably from power plant industry  along with 
supporting documents, such as end user certificates , coverage area  etc. for 
establishing successful performance of 5G deployment for the period from the date 
of application.  
 
7.0   DOWNLOAD AND SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
A. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost 
from  https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  
B. For consideration of EOI, APPLICANTs are required to e -mail signed and 
scanned copy of EOI, duly filled and complete in all respect, through e-mail 
mentioned hereunder. 
                                  avinashanand@ntpc.co.in, akhileshpoddar@ntpc.co.in 
C. APPLICANTS may send their queries related with EOI through e-mail at   
avinashanand@ntpc.co.in, akhileshpoddar@ntpc.co.in 
D. Date of publication of EOI : 10.01.2026      
E. Last date for submission of Application: 10 days from date of publication of EOI 
(till 17:00 hrs. IST) 
F. Last date for queries/ seeking clarifications : 7 days from the date of 
publication of EOI 
G. Response Validity: 3 months from the last date for EOI Submission 
 
H. NTPC shall not be liable for any postal/ Mail delivery issue and delays 
whatsoever in receipt of EOI documents and EOI received after the stipulated 
date and time shall not be entertained. EOIs submitted without supporting 
documents (as mentioned in Sec-I clause 5.0 and Annexures mentioned in Sec-
III) will be summarily rejected. 
 
I. NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, 
cancel/withdraw the EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever , 
and in such case, APPLICANT shall not have any claim arising out of such 
action.  
 
 
 
 
J. Language of the responses to EOI or any 
query/clarifications/correspondences shall be in English only. 
 
K. APPLICANTs shall mention the name and contact details of two persons, with 
complete address, phone number and official email id. 
 
L. The responsibility of Compliance of all applicable statutory provisions are 
within the entire scope of the Agency and shall indemnify NTPC in case of any 
claim, procedure, dispute what so  ever towards the execution of the work in 
its entirety. 
 
M. NTPC Ltd. may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ 
documents and/ or seek clarifications from the APPLICANT(s) after the 
Deadline for submission of response, inter alia, for the purpose  of removal of 
inconsistencies or infirmities in their responses. 
 
 
8.0  Validity of Responses : 
 
The APPLICANT shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to three (3) 
months after the response Deadline (“Response Validity”). NTPC reserve s the right to 
reject any response which does not meet the above-mentioned validity requirement. 
 
NTPC may solicit the APPLICANT’s consent for an extension of the period of validity of 
the response. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing. In the event 
any APPLICANT refuses to extend its response validity as requested by NTPC, NTPC 
shall terminate processing of such APPLICANT’s responses. An APPLICANT accepting 
NTPC request for validity extension shall not be permitted to modify its response.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-II: INFORMATION TO APPLICANTS 

 
 
 
 
1.0 General Information 
NTPC has a fleet of thermal power plants  consisting of more than 85000  MW 
capacity (including JV’s)  and more than  20000 MW thermal capacity is under 
construction at various locations. Presently we have different systems in place like 
CLIMS (Contractors Labour Information Management System), CCTV systems for 
safety and surveillance, remote process parameters connected to control system 
etc. The goal of on premise 5G (CNPN) network deployment is to bring it all in the 
umbrella of 5G network with advance features  like monitoring, surveillance  and 
better connectivity building safer and more secure power plant . This shall help in 
monitoring, timely response, strengthen preparedness in event of any unforeseen 
scenarios. 
 
 
2.0 Objective of EOI  
 
As part of our strategic initiatives to enhance connectivity solutions, NTPC is 
looking to conduct Proof of Concept (P OC) at mutually agreed sites for on-
premises 5G network deployment, where bidder’s solution can be evaluated for its 
performance, scalability, and integration capabilities. 
Deployment of onsite 5G network intends to monitor site in real time with use of on 
demand 5G camera, Labor movements with smart helmets, better connectivity with 
push to talk devices , handsets  etc. to enhance security and surveillance at 
stations/projects.  
The objective of this P OC is to demonstrate the feasibility, efficiency, and 
operational advantages of onsite 5G network solutions in real -time environments 
and evaluation of the same for usage in NTPC power plant. 
 
.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-III: APPLICATION FORM AND ANNEXURES 

 
 
 
 
Instructions to APPLICANTs 
 This Expression of Interest (EOI) is to identify interested parties for the Scope of Work 
mentioned particularly at clause no -5 of the Detailed Notice Inviting Expression of Interest 
(EOI) 
 For expression of interest, Application Form and Annexures given in Section-III shall be duly 
filled and sent to NTPC by the APPLICANT in soft copy. Following are the list of Annexures: 
 
 Annexure -1: Application Form 
 Annexure- 2: APPLICANT’s Profile 
  Annexure- 3: Acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC 
 Annexure- 4: Information as desired at Clause No. 03 of Detailed Notice Inviting EOI 
and any other information which applicant wants to provide 
 Annexure-5: Check list 
 
 APPLICANTs should go through Section -I and Section-II thoroughly before filling in 
and submitting the application. 
 Along with submission of application & form, A PPLICANT must ensure that they have 
provided following information without which EOI shall be rejected: 
 
 
o GSTN and PAN of firm (or individual if applying as individual). 
o Address/ Contact number/ e-mail address/ Name of Contact person. 
o Completely filled check list as per Annexure-5 
 
(Annexure-1)  
 
 
 
(EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: APPLICATION FORM) 
 
(To be submitted on APPLICANT’s Letter Head) 
 
Ref No.                                                                                             Date: 
 
Additional General Manager, Station Engineering 
NTPC Limited, WR-II HQ, 
Plot No. 87, Sector 24, Atal Nagar , Nava Raipur 
Raipur, Chhattisgarh-492018 
 
Dear Sir, 
Sub: Expression of Interest for Proof of Concept (POC) on Deployment of on premise 
5G Captive Non-Public Network (CNPN) and its Application, as per Detailed Notice Inviting 
Expression of Interest (EOI), (Ref No. EOI No.: EOC/Station Engi/2025 -26/5G CNPN) 
dated 10.01.2026. 
 
We, the undersigned, express our interest for the subject EOI and declare the following: 
 
(a) We are duly authorized to represent and act on behalf of _ (name of 
the firm/company/individual). 
 
(b) We have examined and have no reservations to the EOI document including 
Amendment No(s) & Clarification No(s) (if any). 
(c) With reference to your invitation for EOI dated , we are furnishing herewith 
all the required details as per the prescribed Annexures. 
(d) We hereby express our willingness to participate in RFP/ forth coming tender as and  
when NTPC Ltd invite the same. 
 
(e) NTPC and /or its authorized representatives are hereby authorized to conduct any  
inquiries or investigations to verify the statements, documents and information 
submitted in connection with this application  and to seek clarifications from our 
bankers/suppliers and clients. 
(f) This application  will also serve  as authorization  to seek/ request information  as 
deemed necessary from any individual or authorized representative of any institution  
referred in the supporting document provided by APPLICANT.
(Annexure-1)  
 
 
 
(g) NTPC and /or its authorized representatives may contact the following nodal 
persons for further information on any aspects of the application: 
 
Name and designation of 
contact Person 
Address for 
Communication 
Telephone No Email ID 
    
    
 
(h) This application is made in full understanding that: 
        Through this EOI, NTPC intends to identify interested and capable parties in India 
for deployment of On-site private 5G Captive Non-Public network (CNPN) with intended 
applications mentioned in section-I . 
This EOI is not intended for empanelment of  APPLICANT or pre -qualification of 
applicant as well as any right to receive the enquiry for bidding /RFQ by the applicant. 
 
1. EOI process will be subject to verification of all information submitted at the 
discretion of NTPC. 
2. NTPC Ltd reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, 
cancel/withdraw the EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever 
and in such case, APPLICANT shall not have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
(i) We declare that we have read and abide by the provisions of Fraud Prevention 
Policy of NTPC and submit the form of Acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy duly 
filled as per NTPC’s format. 
(j) The undersigned declare that the statements made and the information provided in 
the duly completed application are complete, true and correct in every detail. 
 
 
SIGNATURE 
 
(AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
(DATE/NAME/DESIGNATION/PLACE) 
(OFFICE STAMP) 
                                                                           
 
 
Annexure-2 
 
Applicant’s Profile 
 
1. Name of the interested party: ………………………………………………………… 
2. Address : …………………………………………………………… 
3. Classification of Company 
Public Limited 
Partnership 
Limited Private 
Limited 
Others Please Specify: …………………………………… 
4.   Contact Details (Max 02 person) NAME: ………………………………………………………. 
DESIGNATION: ……………………………………………..,,…….. 
MOBILE NO.: ………………………………………………………. 
EMAIL-ID: …………………………………………………………. 
5. Years of experience in the business: ………………………………………………………………. 
6. Annual Turnover …………………………………………………………………………….. 
7. Details of recently executed works, details of the works in the form of videos and photos.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE 
 
(AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
(DATE/NAME/DESIGNATION/PLACE) 
(OFFICE STAMP) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-3 
 
 
(FORM FOR ACCEPTANCE OF FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY) 
 
We have read the contents of Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC displayed on the tender  
website https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/and undertake that we shall strictly abide by the 
provisions of Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE 
 
(AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
(DATE/NAME/DESIGNATION/PLACE) 
(OFFICE STAMP) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Annexure-4) 
 
 
 
 
Information as desired at Clause No. 03 of Detailed Notice Inviting EOI 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ANY OTHER INFORMATION) 
 
 
 
If Applicant desires to share any other additional Information relevant to the work / assignment 
like brochure, future plan or any suggestion, it may be given in this Annexure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE 
 
(AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
(DATE/NAME/DESIGNATION/PLACE) 
(OFFICE STAMP) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Annexure-5) 
 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Information Desired Provided 
(Yes/No) 
Remarks if any (specially if 
answer to column 3 is “No”) 
1 On site private 5G network deployed 
(preferably from power plant industry) 
  
2 List of 5G deployed applications    
3 List of supplies including 5G RAN, 
spectrum an d equipment's like Smart 
helmets, IOT sensors, 5G camera, 
Push to talk devices, handsets etc. 
  
4 Documents of previous work   
5 Client certificates for successful 
running years 
  
6 Coverage Area of 5G CNPN network   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE 
 
(AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
(DATE/NAME/DESIGNATION/PLACE) 
(OFFICE STAMP) 
 