GEM Bid No.: GEM/2026/B/7086413 
SECTION – I 
 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Project 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
1. NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited (NTECL), a JV of NTPC Ltd. & TANGEDCO invites 
online bids for its 2 X 500 MW + 1 X 500 MW Thermal Power Project at Vellivoyal Chavadi Post, 
Ponneri Taluk, Thiruvallur  Distt., Chennai, Tamil  Nadu from eligible bi dders for the following 
package. 
 
 
2.  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK: 
The scope of the subject package envisages Supply, Erection and Commissioning of latest 
version VFD drives for pipe conveyor at NTECL Vallur, NTECL Vallur 
3.   QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (OR) : 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements  
stipulated hereunder: 
 
3.1 Technical Criteria 
3.1.1 The bidder should be a Manufacturer1 of VFD System and should have supplied and commissioned/ 
supervised the commissioning of VFD system which is driving more than one motor of 0.70MW each 
(or above) working in configuration of master -slave(follower)/ Tandem/ Synch, which should have 
completed at least one year of operation prior to date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
 
Note1: 
The bidder can also be a subsidiary/ Authorized channel partner/Authorized dealer of the OEM as 
above as on date of opening of Techno -Commercial Bid. The bidder should be duly authorized by 
the OEM for the subject tender. 
 
The Subsidiary/Authorised Channel partners/ Authorised Dealer can use OEM experience to meet 
this criterion. However, the authorized certificate should mention the Tender No and as per the clause 
No 1.08.00 "Vendor through VFD Manufacturer shall ensure ava ilability of spares and maintenance 
support services for the offered equipment for at least 15 years from the date of supply and 
undertaking to this effect shall be furnished with the offer by the manufacturer."  
3.1.2 The bidder shall have “Repair and service” facility in India. 
In case bidder is a subsidiary/ Authorized channel partner/Authorized dealer  of OEM with valid 
authorisation certificate from OEM for the subject tender, then Authorised Dealer can use Repair 
&service facility of OEM to meet this criterion. 
Description of work Bid Security / EMD Contract Period 
Supply, Erection and 
Commissioning of latest 
version VFD drives for pipe 
conveyor at NTECL Vallur 
Rs. 10,00,000/- 
(Rupees Ten Lakhs 
only) 
25 Weeks 
GEM Bid No.: GEM/2026/B/7086413 
3.1.3 The bidder in the preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening should have 
executed the works of “Supply of automation system and/or electrical system, including VFD system**”,  
with  
i. Single (01) order of executed value not less than ₹ 549 Lakhs (Rupees five crore and forty -nine 
lakhs)  
                                    OR  
ii. Two (02) orders, each of executed value not less than ₹ 343 Lakhs (Rupees three crore and 
forty-three lakhs)  
                                    OR  
iii. Three (03) orders, each of executed value not less than ₹ 274 Lakhs (Rupees two crore and 
seventy-four lakhs) 
Note.: Values indicated above are exclusive of taxes. 
** Supply of automation system or electrical system, not having VFD system, shall not be considered.   
3.2 Financial Criteria 
3.2.1 The average annual turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial  years as on the date 
of techno-commercial bid opening shall not be less than ₹ 6.86 Cr (Rupees Six crores and eighty six 
lakhs) 
3.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 4.2.1 above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. No. 4.2.1 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid up share capital of the Holding Company. In 
such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter 
of Undertaking from the Holding Company,  supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, 
as per the format enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the contract by the bidder in case of award. 
3.2.3 Net worth of bidder shall not be less than 100% of the bidder’s paid up share capital as on the last 
day of the preceding financial year. 
In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) 
and/or Holding company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies wherever applicable, the Net 
worth of the Bidders and its Subsidiary(ies)  and/or Holding company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the 
Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid  up share 
capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid up 
share capitals. For Consortiums/Joint Ventures, wherever applicable, the Net worth of all 
consortium/Joint Venture members in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their paid 
up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their respective 
paid up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined)=(x1+x2+x3)/(y1+y2+y3)x100 
where x1, x2, x3 are individual net worth which shall not be less than 75% (seventy  five percent) of 
the respective paid up share capitals and y1, y2, y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
3.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to  furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone entity basis, 
the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the  bidder can be considered acceptable 
provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of the 
audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company 
 
b) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the Holding Company. 
3.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno -commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) consecutive 
GEM Bid No.: GEM/2026/B/7086413 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered  for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding document stating that the financial results of the company are under audit as on the date of 
Techno-commercial bid opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant  
certifying financial parameters is not available. 
 Notes for Clause 4.2 above: 
 
1. Net worth means the sum total  of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited 
out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and ama lgamation. Further 
any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or 
written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
3.3 The bidder should have GSTIN number 
 
 
4. BRIEF DETAILS: 
Type of Bidding Two Packet Bidding 
Pre bid conference As per details published in GeM portal 
Document download start / end date As per details published in GeM portal 
Last Query date (Queries shall be 
entertained up to this date only) As per details published in GeM portal 
Last Date and Time for Bid Submission (Both 
Techno-commercial Bid and Price Bid) i.e. 
Envelope - I & II together. 
As per details published in GeM portal 
Bid Opening Date & Time   As per details published in GeM portal 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time 
Shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after 
evaluation of Techno -Commercial Bid through GeM 
Portal. 
Source of Funding 
Expenditure under this package is intended to be 
funded from internal resources and/ or borrowings by 
the Employer 
Benefits to MSE’s Applicable. As per GEM portal 
 
Make in India Policy 
APPLICABLE (For details refer SCC)  
Class‐I & Class -II local supplier  only are eligible to 
participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in 
India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ 
revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding 
documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
Bids received (if any) from Non Local Supplier shall be 
outrightly rejected.  
Preference to Class-I Local Suppliers 
Purchase preference shall be given to Class -I local 
suppliers as specified in the Tender Documents. Class-
II local supplier will not get purchase preference. 
Splitting of quantity (MSE) Not allowed 
Reverse auction Not applicable 
EMD/BID SECURITY As per details  at NIT Clause 1/Exempted as per GEM 
 
GEM Bid No.: GEM/2026/B/7086413 
All bids those are not exempted must be accompanied by 
Bid Security as stipulated in the Bidding documents in the 
form of EMD.  
 
While submitting the bid for the subject work, please 
upload EMD online along with your offer.  
 
Hard copy of original EMD , if applicable,  shall reach 
NTECL office, within 05 working days  from Techno -
Commercial BOD, as per GeM GTC. "ANY BID NOT 
ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY 
IN A SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE 
REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON ‐
RESPONSIVE” 
Cost of Bidding document  Free 
1. Offers where bidders have attached Documents for EMD payment / availing exemption from EMD in 
EMD Cover will be checked.  
In case BG is submitted in lieu of EMD, then the BG should be on non -judicial stamp paper of 
appropriate value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the state (s) where the BG is submitted or is to be 
acted upon or the rate prevailing in the state where the BG is  executed, whichever is higher. Any bid 
not accompanied by an acceptable BG executed on non judicial stamp paper of appropriate value as 
per Stamp Act shall be considered non-responsive. 
2. After Techno-commercial bid opening, the bids submitted shall be evaluated for meeting the Qualifying 
Requirements, if any & Technical Requirements. 
3. Only those bids meeting the Qualifying Requirements and complying with the Technical Requirements 
shall be considered for Price Bid Opening.  
4. The date of opening of Price Bid shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after evaluation of Techno-
commercial Bid through GEM portal. 
 
 
 
5.    OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
1.    Detailed specifications, Scope of work, Terms & conditions etc., are given in the bidding documents. Bid 
documents can be downloaded from the GeM Portal (https://gem.gov.in).  
2.   The Bidder would be required to register on the GeM Portal as a seller. Methodology for registration and 
submission of bids is available at https://gem.gov.in. 
 
3.    It is deemed that bidder shall accept all the terms and conditions mentioned in the tender documents without 
any deviation. For that the bidders are requested to submit the “NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATE”  for 
fulfillment of technical/commercial compliance. NO DEVIATION IS ACCEPTABLE TO NTECL . IF 
ANY DEVIATION IS TAKEN BY THE BIDDER IN THE “NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATE” OR 
ANY WHERE ELSE IN THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDING BOQ, THEIR BID SHALL BE 
SUMMARILY REJECTED.  
a) The provisions of Bidding Documents read in Conjunction with Amendment(s)/ Clarification(s)/ 
Addenda/ Errata (if any) are acceptable and no deviation has been taken in this regard.  
b) Any deviation to Bidding Documents and its subsequent Amendment(s)/ Clarifications(s)/ Addenda/ 
Errata/ Minutes of Clarification Meeting (if any) as mentioned at (a) above found anywhere in Techno 
Commercial  & Price Bid Proposal, implicit or explicit, the  same shall not be given effect to in 
evaluation and it will be considered that the bidder complies to all the terms and conditions of Bidding 
Documents without any extra cost to the Owner irrespective of any mention to the contrary, anywhere 
in the bid, failing which the Bid Security of the Bidder be forfeited. 
 
4.    Any Clarification related to the scope, terms & conditions of contract shall be sought under 
Clarification tab of the GeM Portal , latest by the query date as mentioned in the documents. 
Clarifications received after the specified date from the agencies will not be entertained. NTECL 
shall respond to any request for clarification or modification of the bidding documents that it 
receives within the timeline specified. 
GEM Bid No.: GEM/2026/B/7086413 
 
NTECL shall post the Clarifications under GeM Representation ta b at GeM Portal. Bidders can 
view these clarifications. Bidders are advised to regularly check under Representation tab 
regarding posting of clarification, if any. 
 
Bidders must check the Clarifications issued before submission of Bid. Should NTECL deem it 
necessary to amend the Bidding Document as a result of a clarification, it shall do so and upload 
the amendments in the tender on the GeM portal. After this stage, no deviation is acceptable to 
NTECL.  
 
5. The prospective bidders are invited to submit their Bid comprising of Techno - Commercial Bid and Price 
Bid for the subject package, in line with the provision of the bidding documents.   
  
6. The cost on account of preparation and submission of Bid, negotiations, discussions etc., as may be incurred 
by the Bidder in the process, are not reimbursable by the owner, and the owner will in no case be responsible 
or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct or outcome of the bidding process. 
 
7. Transfer of Bidding Documents downloaded by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
8. The Owner (NTECL) reserves the right to accept or reject any bid, and to annul the bidding process and 
reject all bids at any time prior to award of contract, without thereby incurring liability to the affected Bidder 
or bidders or any obligation to inform the affected Bidder or bidders of the grounds for the Owner’s action. 
Decision of Owner will be final and binding in this regard. 
 
9. NTECL reserves the right to amend/alter/add/delete any provision of this document.  
 
10. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents/GeM, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid 
only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority.  
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing 
a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
11. “Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which 
Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requ irements (QR), will carry Unique Document 
Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI) 
 
12. Bid Submission: Bidders shall submit their offer/proposal on the GEM portal. 
 
13. Pre Bid conference: - NOT APPLICABLE 
a) A pre-bid conference will be conducted online on the date and time mentioned in GeM Portal. 
b) The link to participate in the pre-bid conference shall be published as corrigendum later. 
c) The procedure and conditions of Pre bid conference shall be as per SCC Clause no 5.0. 
 
14. The laws applicable to the contract shall be the law in force in India. The courts of Chennai alone shall have 
the exclusive jurisdiction in all matters arising under the contract. 
 
 
15. Address for Communication:  
AGM (C&M) 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Project,  
GEM Bid No.: GEM/2026/B/7086413 
Kuruvimedu Village, PonneriTaluk ,  
VellivayalChavadi  Post  ,  
Thiruvallur District, Chennai - 600103. 
 
Contact Persons:  
Chandrasekhar Vedula 
AGM (C&M)  
Ph # 044-27926500 
Email: vchandrasekhar01@ntpc.co.in 
or 
Jaideep 
DGM (C&M),  
Ph # 044-27926507 
Mobile No 9650992185 
email: jaideep@ntpc.co.in 
 
 