Page 1 of 11  
  
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)    
for   
Issue of Pond Ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from NTPC North Karanpura.  
  
Ref No. EOI No. XXXX                         Date: XX. XX. XXXX   
  
  
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: -  
  
i. Part 1:   General Information.  
ii. Part 2:  Format for Submission of Response to EOI.   
iii. Part 3:  Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder.  iv.  Part 4: Terms & Conditions and 
General Guidelines.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
N.B.    
Page 2 of 11  
  
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled i n wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder, on each page and shal l be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable.  
    
Part 1:  General Information  
General Details about NTPC North Karanpura:    
NTPC North Karanpura, located at Tandwa, Dist: Chatra having a total installed capacity of 1980 
MW, is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power.   
To utilize the   ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant  
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of Pond ash as resource material, NTPC 
North Karanpura intends to issue its Pond Ash on free of cost and on first come first served basis, 
with transportation cost being borne by the Bidder.  
To facilitate this, NTPC North Karanpura invites Expressions of Interest for the above, for a period 
of Ten months, from its 3 X 660 MW units . Further details regarding this Expression of Intere st 
(EoI) are as follow:   
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST:   
NTPC North Karanpura invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above from interested Bidders for 
utilization of Pond Ash in eligible avenues as per extant MoEF&CC Notification in the prescribed 
formats (Part-2 & Part-3) .   
Total quantity of Pond ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder -  
Power Stations / Location   Total Quantity 
offered for EoI   Period of Supply  
NTPC  NORTH  KARANPURA  SUPER 
THERMAL POWER PROJECT,   
Address-Tandwa, Dist: Chatra, Jharkhand  
44.30 LMT    
 1Year    
(February 2026 to January    
2027)   
  
  
How to apply   
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving Pond Ash from NTPC North Karanpura as per the terms 
and conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents 
and duly filled in enclosed “ Part 2 : Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and  
“Part 3 : Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder” to the E –  Mail address 
ashutilizationnkstpp@ntpc.co.in on or before 17:00 hrs. of XXth MONTH 2026.   
  
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”:  
1. GST registration as may be applicable  
2. Company registration as may be applicable  
3. Pan Card copy  
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person.  
Page 3 of 11  
  
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary 
proof as applicable.  
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certifie d by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete.  
  
Allocation of Pond Ash Quantity:  
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI, Pond Ash shall be allocated to various bidders 
free of cost and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity is exhausted.  
However, collecting from NTPC`s issue location and transportation, thereafter, will be in the 
scope of the bidder only.  
  
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation agains t both the Auction Process and this EoI, 
then the Ash quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that Bidder, only after the Bidder 
completes the lifting / drawl of the total allocation against the Auction Process.   
  
  
Daily allocation of Pond ash shall be done as given below:  
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly re quisition containing a list of their day wise 
requested quantity for each month by the 22 nd  of the previous month. In case any bidder 
proposes to collect the ash through Rail (subject t o Rail Loading Facility being available 
at the station), same shall also be indicated in this requisition.  
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated q uantity and availability, NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28 th  of the previous 
month.  
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors ) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly.  
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobiliz ation, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). D ecision of Engineer in Charge 
(EIC)NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard.  
  
Pond Ash shall be issued from designated storage area / Dewatering Bin at AHP / Other Suitable 
Locations as decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC), AUD of NTPC North Karanpura/NKSTPP , 
on ‘ as is where is’  basis.  
  
Refundable Security Deposit (SD):  
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refun dable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation  of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 5.00 / MT subject to mi nimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Ash recipient(s) for lif ting the allocated Ash. An amount at the rate 
of Rs. 5.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited.   
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This 
adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of 
entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier.  
    
Page 4 of 11  
  
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI  
(On official letter head of the Bidder)  
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents)  
  
EOI for Issue Pond Ash from North Karanpura Super Thermal Power Project   
Sl. No.  Description  Details  
1  Name of the Bidder    
2.  Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm)    
2.1  GST No, as may be applicable    
2.2  PAN No.    
2.3  
Nature of Business:     
Name of the Product / Service    
Production / Service Capacity per Annum    
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year    
Annual Turnover of previous Financial Year.    
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility    
Whether capable of handling Pond Ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No)  
  
3  
Registered Address    
Telephone No.    
Mobile No.    
 
Page 5 of 11  
  
4  
Communication Address    
Telephone No.    
Mobile No.    
5  GSTIN No. / UIN No.    
6  Pond Ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words):  
Figures:   
Words:  
7  
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond Ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No).     
If Yes,  
Quantity allocated (in MT)     
Rate Quoted  Rs. per MT    
8  Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport Pond Ash if issued.    
9  
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the Pond Ash, if issued.  
SN   Avenue Name  
Reference of  
Applicable Gazette  
Notification clause(s)  
1.      
2.      
3.      
4.      
5.      
10  
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc.   
Name of the Authorized Person    
Designation    
Telephone No.    
Page 6 of 11  
  
Mobile No.    
 Email Id    
11  Any other relevant information    
  
  
  
 For and on behalf of      
  
            
Date:   
Place:  
          Signature:  
          (Authorized Representative)   
  
Name:  
  
Designation:  
Page 7 of 11  
  
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder.   
(To be submitted on non-judicial stamp paper)   
UNDERTAKING  
  
I / We _________________________________________ (N ame of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained 
in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the 
terms and conditions of the EoI including all corri gendum/addendum, if any. In the 
event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete  EoI document shall be considered 
as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as 
and wherever applicable and required by TPP .  
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, 
nor have been convicted of violating applicable law.  
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us :  
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plan t entry and exit, Weighment, 
Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained wh ile inside the Plant, Mobilization 
of adequate number of closed / covered vehicle / suitable transportation arrangement 
conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out 
the above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC.  
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutor y regulations including those 
regarding safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill 
all applicable statutory requirements for, and in c onnection with the execution of the 
contract.  
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area 
as directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and  safe execution of the collection / 
lifting and utilization of Pond ash.  
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / 
Subsidiaries from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regula tions/ Guidelines / laws during the 
course of execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or 
commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents.  
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued b y TPP for only Ash Utilization 
Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on 
Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes 
/ Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification.  
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of  security deposit amount, in case I / 
we fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI.  
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars  furnished by us in this EoI are true 
and authentic  to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that 
if at any stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are 
Page 8 of 11  
  
liable for disqualification from this EoI and also  liable for any other penal action that 
may arise due to the above.   
DECLARATION  
  
I / We understand that:  
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for Pond As h tie-up/ agreement.  
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated wit h the preparation and submission 
of the EoI. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of 
the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process.  
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payab le to Railways, haulage 
charges and other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in 
Environment friendly manner, will be in my / our sc ope. While I / we understand that 
the NTPC Station may at its discretion, consider part / full facilitation for lifting of Pond 
Ash thru rail – mode / road cum rail mode, subject to feasibility and cost economics, I 
/ we also understand that I /we shall have no claim whatsoever, in this regard.  
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Serv ed basis, to the parties who 
have submitted all requisite documents, complete in  all respect within the stipulated 
time of submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt 
of all specified documents only.  
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be req uired to submit Refundable 
Security Deposit amount at the rate of Re 5.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, 
along with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This  Security Deposit will be 
refundable as per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In c ase of non-receipt of LOA / LOI 
acceptance along with requisite security deposit an d other specified documents 
required by the respective station within stipulate d time, TPP reserves the right to 
cancel the Pond Ash allocation to me / us.  
6. (Applicable for parties allocated Pond Ash through auction process also 
from same Station)   
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our  part to  collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting.  
  
Thanking you,  
  
(Signature of authorized person)  
  
Date ……./ ……../ ……….       Name ………………………………  
              ………………………………………  
Place:   …………………….     Designation: ……………………….  
...................…………………………  
              Name of the Company: …….…….  
              …………………………………....….  
Page 9 of 11  
  
Address: …………………………….  
                
              …………………………………….….  
              Company Seal: …..…………………  
     ………….……………………………..  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
10 of 11  
  
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines:  
1. Pond Ash shall be issued from the designated sto rage area  or other 
location as decided by EIC to the Successful Bidders (or their authorized 
representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering 
Operational and Safety issues.  
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the vario us extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines 
etc and carry out their activities in full compliance with the same.   
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission 
from NKSTPP.   
4. Agencies eligible for lifting Pond ash shall app ly for permission for the 
covered / closed trucks that they propose to deploy and submit the same 
to EIC along with specified documents like registra tion, license, 
insurance etc, who shall arrange to verify the same  and issue 
permission as per prevailing procedure adopted at the Station.   
5. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule 
or reschedule the lifting of ash by different agenc ies, which shall be 
binding upon the agencies. Agencies shall start collecting the Ash as per 
their respective allocation as per the schedule intimated by the EIC.   
6. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be bind ing upon all the agencies 
and verifiable by NKSTPP .   
7. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ran ging from fine to 
termination of contract / agreement / issue of Pond  ash as decided by 
EIC.   
8. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of t he Successful Bidder(s).   
9. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insura nce etc. for the 
deployed Vehicles shall be submitted at the time of  start of work (and 
also when new and / or  additional vehicles are deployed) and thereafter 
as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. T he vehicles shall 
be in fit condition for safe operation.   
10. Successful Bidders shall submit an affidavit on  Non – judicial stamp 
paper of requisite value, certifying the complete U tilization of issued 
Pond ash, in adherence with the provisions of the extant Notification and 
other applicable statutory regulations. This affida vit, in prescribed 
format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC.   
11. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to 
noncompliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, 
Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the successf ul Bidder or its 
representative / agent, during the course of execut ion and  for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commissi on, the Successful 
Bidder shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of an y such liability. An 
indemnity bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash.   
12. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate act ion as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date.  
  
  
  
11 of 11  
  
Page  

THE TIMES OF INDIA, RANCHI , FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 2026 3
PD: 09-01-2026 Z: JharkhandMainBook2 E: 1 U: rahul.pandey1 T: 01-08-2026 22:04
<bha>AytecrwSe6wdAbrdgkTW4VTcI4jxSRd7Pn99F4vpVFcbmTLzkKSXVWM6r2SwDPKPtM8DHYwtNxIw5OT2OtT08bYQbzYRuYfTXgEoB/HmZItOhN7z3sGlQXb78GTuJ6ESqjYnH60kxRCaa5g1OPpj86ejE7FMFXwyFfqLMzXbc2ClsG8mv4vrMqpPuFvZYQme</bha>