       NTPC Green Energy Limited   
(A Subsidiary of NTPC Limited) 
 
 
                                
 
                            Contracts Services 
4th Floor, RE Building, 
NETRA Complex E-3, 
Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, 
Greater Noida 
      Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
for 
 
 
 
 
ENGAGING CONSULTANT FOR DETAILED PROJECT REPORT OF DESALINATION 
PLANT FOR NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN HUB AT PUDIMADAKA  

 
                NTPC Green Energy Limited 
           (A Subsidiary of NTPC Limited) 
 
Renewable Energy-Contract Services, Noida 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)  
FOR 
ENGAGING CONSULTANT FOR DETAILED PROJECT REPORT OF DESALINATION 
PLANT FOR NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN HUB AT PUDIMADAKA 
 
                                                                                       Date: 15.01.2026         
Bidding Document No.: GEM/2026/B/7075834 
 
1.0 NGEL Limited invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis (Envelope-
I: Techno-Commercial Bid , Envelop-II Price Bid) for aforesaid Package, as per the Scope 
of Work mentioned in bidding documents. 
 
2.0 Class-I local suppliers only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves 
of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
2.0    BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
  
2.1 BID NO GEM/2026/B/7075834 
2.2 Description of work ENGAGING CONSULTANT FOR DETAILED 
PROJECT REPORT OF DESALINATION 
PLANT FOR NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN 
HUB AT PUDIMADAKA 
 
2.3 Source of NIT NGEL, Contract Services, Greater Noida 
2.4 Contract Classification Service contract. 
2.5 Last Date and Time for 
Bid Submission 
All the critical dates are as per GeM Portal. 
2.6 Last Query Date All the critical dates are as per GeM Portal. 
2.7 Technical Bid Opening 
Date & Time 
All the critical dates are as per GeM Portal. 
2.8 Price Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
Shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders 
after evaluation of Techno -Commercial Bid 
through GeM Portal 
2.9 (a) Tender Fee Not Applicable  
2.9 (b) Bid Security/EMD INR 5,00,000/‐ (Five Lakhs Only). 
EMD exemption is applicable in the subject 
NIT for MSE Registered Bidders under 
UDYAM Only. 
Mode of submission of Earnest Money 
Deposit/Bid Security – The Bid Security shall, 
at the Bidder's option, be in the form of 
Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT)/ irrevocable 
Letter of Credit or a bank guarantee from any 
of the banks specified in the Bid Data Sh eets 
or an Insurance Surety Bond from an Insurer 
as per guidelines issued by Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India (IRDAI).  
For details i.e. bank, formats please refer bid 
documents. 
2.10 INTEGRITY PACT  Not Applicable.  
 
2.11 EVALUATION OVERALL LUMPSUM BASIS 
2.12 Whether Joint Venture/ 
Consortium Permitted? 
No 
2.13 Whether Associate / 
Collaborator permitted ? 
No 
2.14 MSE Benefits in Award & 
EMD 
Applicable. 
 
Benefits under PPP 2012 for MSEs are 
applicable only for (a) Goods produced and (b) 
Services provided by MSEs. In this regard, 
OM dated 9.11.2016 and its subsequent 
amendment / clarifications issued by MSME 
from time to time regarding definition of Goods 
and Services may be referred.  
 
MSE benefits shall not be applicable to 
Trader/Dealer of Goods. Further, MSE 
benefits shall also not be applicable for 
Works Contracts. 
 
Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) having 
Udyam Registration only for Goods produced 
and Services rendered shall only be eligible 
for MSE benefits. 
 
In case of an upward change in terms of 
investment in plant and machinery or 
equipment or turnover or both, and 
consequent re -classification, an enterprise 
shall continue to avail of all nontax benefits of 
the category (micro or small or medium) it was 
in before the re -classification, for a period of 
three years from the date of such upward 
change.  
The benefits to the participating Service 
Providers under PPP 2012 shall be 
applicable irrespective of product (Goods / 
Services) categories for which bidder is 
registered as MSE. 
 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) who are holding valid Udyam 
Registration and are manufacturer of the offered Product or Service 
(Primary Product / Service ‐ in case of bunch bid with total value wise 
evaluation) and give specific confirmation to this effect at the time of 
bid submission and claim EMD exemption and whose credentials are 
validated online through Udyam Registration website of Ministry of 
MSME an d also through supporting document uploaded during 
bidding process and validated by the Buyer. Th erefore , for availing 
exemption Benefit in EMD and Award , Bidders are requested to submit 
only “UDYAM REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE”. Other MSE related 
documents like “Udyog Aadhar Memorandum (UAM) or “NSIC 
certificate” etc or any other certificate issued by Ministry of Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises as per MSMED Act 2006 , for goods 
produced and services rendered will not be considered as a MSE 
exemption certificate. 
2.15 Make in India Policy APPLICABLE (For details refer ITB)  
 
3.0 Class-I local suppliers only are eligible to 
participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued 
by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves 
of the relevant provisions of bidding documents 
in this regard before submission of their bids. 
4.0  
2.16 Contract Period 10 months from the date of letter of 
intent/Letter of Award (LOA) or as 
mentioned in the bidding documents. 
2.17 Splitting of quantity Not allowed. 
2.18 Reverse auction Not Applicable 
2.19 First time users not allotted any vendor code are requested to approach  
NGEL  at least ten working days prior to Document download close date and 
submit the Following:  
a) For Creation of Vendor Code: 
i) Request letter on company's letter head of the bidder 
ii)Copy of GST Registration , PAN No. 
iii)valid E-mail-ID  
iv)Address Proof  
v)Cancel Cheque & EFT Form(to be verified by bank)  
Note: Format of E.F.T(Electronic Fund Transfer) Form is attached along with 
tender document. 
2.20 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 5,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Five Lakh only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN 
A SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE 
EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE 
OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE PROOF 
OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE ONLY. 
 
(Bidders who are unable to send the Original Bank Guarantee in physical form 
at the tender opening location, may adopt procedure given in Bidding 
documents) 
2.21 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as 
specified in the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only 
if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the 
Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a 
land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered 
with the same competen t authority. However, the said requirement of 
registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines 
of credit or in which the Government of India is engage d in development 
projects. 
3.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS: 
 In addition to the requirements stipulated in Section ITB (Instruction to 
Bidders), Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated 
hereunder: 
  
 1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA:  
The bidder should have completed the consultancy assignment of, 
Preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) of Desalination Plant of at least 
one project not less than the size of 40 Million Liters per Day (MLD) in India 
during the last Ten (10) years pri or to the date of techno commercial bid 
opening.  
 
The DPR of reference project (s) should have been completed before the date 
of techno-commercial bid opening and a work completion certificate from the 
client needs to be  submitted. 
                     Notes for Cl 1.0 Technical Criteria: 
 i) The work carried out by the bidder’s group company, holding company, or 
subsidiary company shall also be considered as the bidder’s experience in 
meeting the QR. In such a case, Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking jointly 
executed by the firm qualified as per clause 1.0 and the Bidder along with 
its bid for complete performance of the contract jointly and severally as per 
format enclosed in the bid document failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable 
to be rejected. 
 
ii) The bidder should be a registered company under the law of India and in 
service in India for a minimum of five years before the date of techno -
commercial bid opening. 
 
iii) Bidder shall submit letter of award, work completion certificate(s) and other 
supporting documents, clearly specifying details of the scope, project 
capacity, etc. 
 
iv) Reference projects of Techno commercial report or Feasibility report 
including costing and engineering of the desalination plant is also 
considered as DPR. 
 
  
 2.0  Financial Criteria:  
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the bidder should not be less than Rs. 
3.3 crore , (INR Three crore and thirty lakhs  only) during the 
preceding three (03) financial years  as on the date of techno -
commercial bid opening. 
       
      In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, 
stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to 
meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that the 
Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital 
of the Holding Company. In such an event, the bidder would be required 
to furnish along with the bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as 
per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pl edging unconditional 
and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the 
Bidder in case of an award . 
 2.2 Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial 
year should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s 
paid-up share capital. In case the Bidder does not satisfy the Net Worth 
criteria on its own, it can meet the requ irement of Net worth based on 
the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/ or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable, the Net 
worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/ or Holding Company 
and/ or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in a combined manner 
should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid -up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less 
than 75% (seventy -five percent) of their respective paid -up share 
capitals. 
Net worth in a combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1, 
X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of 
the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-
up share capitals. 
 
 2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements 
on a standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the 
Bidder further furnishes the following do cuments on the substantiation 
of its qualification: 
 
a.  Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder along with copies of the audited consolidated financial 
statements of its Holding Company. 
b.  Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the consolidated 
financial statement of the Holding Company. 
 
In case, where audited results for the last financial year as on the date 
of techno commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results 
certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited result of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating financial parameters. 
Further, a certificate would be required from  the CEO/ CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial 
results of the company are under audit as on techno -commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 Notes for Clause 2.0: 
 a. Net worth means the sum total  of the paid -up share capital and free 
reserves. Free reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits and 
share premium account but do not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write -back of depreciation provision, and 
amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of the Profit and Loss account 
and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if  
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
b. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
c. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed 
to them as per the Companies Act of India. 
 
d. For the value of the annual turnover indicated in foreign currency, the 
exchange rates as on seven (7) days prior to the date of techno -
commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
e. ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or 
indirectly, are in a position to: 
i. exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise;     
or 
ii. appoint more than fifty percent of members of the Board of Directors in 
the other enterprise. 
 
The meaning of Holding/Subsidiary/Group Company mentioned above 
shall be applicable for Clause 1.0 also. 
 
  
  
 Please refer ITC clause 4 and Attachment ‐9: Bidders to submit all the 
documents in support of Technical Qualification Requirements (such 
as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client 
Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from 
Independent Statutory  Auditor (ISA) of their Company or specified 
Third‐Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
IMPORTANT GUIDELINES REGARDING TENDER : 
1. The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be 
considered to ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying 
Requirement (QR). The Employer at its discretion may seek any clarification and/or 
documentary evide nce only for the reference works as mentioned in their Bid. 
  
 
However, no change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant 
for conforming to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or 
permitted.  
 
2. Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may 
apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
3. NGEL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation 
for Bids/NIT without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder 
/ intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.  
 
4. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents 
may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the GeM Portal 
(https://gem.gov.in). The Bidder would be required to register on the GeM Portal 
as a seller. 
 
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
5.   Address for communication: 
Sh Rajan Dwivedi / Sh Pradeep Kumar 
Singhal 
AGM (RE-C&M)/ DGM (RE-C&M)  
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED, 
4th Floor,  
E-3, Main Market Rd, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida, 
UP- 201306  
Phone: 91-9450962775/ 9650992844 
E-Mail: rajandwivedi@ntpc.co.in/ pksinghal@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites:   
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in  or https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in,  or  
https://www.ngel.in 
 
 
 
 
  