 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE ENGINEERING 
 
NOTICE FOR EXTENSION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) SUBMISSION DATE  
 
Ref No.: NTPC/PE/ET&PR/EOI-06/2025-26/EXT/1 Date: 18.02.2026 
 
 
This is in continuation to our notice inviting Expression of Interest (EOI) No.: 
NTPC/PE/ET&PR/EOI-06/2025-26 Dated 20.01.2026 for setting up a pilot/utility scale project 
for Compressed Air based including Liquified Air based Long Duration Energy Storage System 
(LDES), uploaded on www.ntpctender.com website, wherein last date of EOI submission was 
23.02.2026. The last date of EOI submission is hereby extended to 09.03.2026. 
 
For detailed EOI and documents, please visit www.ntpctender.com or may contact: 
Sankardas K, Sr. Manager, Energy Transition & Policy Research , NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC 
Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080, E-mail: sankardask@ntpc.co.in 
Registered office: NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi-
110003. CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966 Website: www.ntpc.co.in 

Sl. No. Applicant Query NTPC Reply
1 Request to extend the due date by a week. Please refer EOI Extension Notice
2
Could you please clarify if expressions of interest will be considered from other energy storage 
solutions within the same compressed gas energy storage technology class (e.g. carbon dioxide), 
or if the subject EOI is strictly limited to air-based energy storage solutions.
Present EoI is for Compressed Air-based Long Duration Energy 
Storage (LDES) comprises different 
technologies which store energy using compressed or liquefied 
air.
3 Would NTPC be open to considering a 500 MW project under this framework?
In addition to the EOI requirements, the applicant may submit 
their recommended proposal alongwith detail technical data as 
per Annexure-3 and Annexure-4 of EOI.
4
Permission to Submit Multiple Responses to the EoI
We intend to propose multiple Energy Storage solutions for NTPC’s consideration. Each solution 
involves a distinct technology configuration and therefore a different consortium structure. To 
ensure comprehensive technology coverage for the EoI, we kindly request permission to submit 
multiple responses to the EoI.
Bidder may submit  multiple responses for  Compressed Air-
based Long Duration Energy Storage (LDES) comprises different 
technologies which store energy using compressed or liquefied 
air alongwith detail technical data as per Annexure-3 and 
Annexure-4 of EOI.
5
Request for Extension
Given the substantial effort required to prepare multiple solution proposals with different 
consortium partners, we respectfully request a 4‑week extension for submission of all EoI 
responses.
Please refer EOI Extension Notice
6 What is the scope of the electrical interconnection works? For the pilot program should we 
consider the scope for interconnection to the 33kV or 132kV substation?
Transmission connectivity upto the nearest ISTS shall be in the 
scope of the bidder. However, for the present EOI, the applicant 
shall submit the proposal excluding the transmission component.
7 What are the timelines for showcasing the technology at the pilot site?
  Time line shall be finalised during tendering stage, based upon 
the EOI response , in case technology is found to be techno-
eonomically feasble and NTPC proceeds for utility scale pilot 
TECHNICAL CLARIFICATIONS 2 to  Queries on Expression of Interest (EOI) 
for setting up 
a pilot/utility scale project for Compressed Air based including Liquified Air based Long Duration Energy Storage System (LDES) 
Sl. No. Applicant Query NTPC Reply
8 Has a potential pilot region/site been identified?
The site shall be finalised during tendering stage based upon the 
EOI responses/requirements , in case technology is found to be 
techno-eonomically feasble and NTPC proceed for utility scale 
pilot.
9  Does NTPC value the inertia and short circuit level contribution provided by synchronous 
machines? Applicable prevaling regulation shall prevail.
10 What document is required to demonstrate our collaboration with our partner? Bidder may submit copy of the relevent agreement with the 
partner.
11
Whether the primary objective of this EOI is limited to technology demonstration at pilot scale, or 
whether NTPC envisages progression to utility-scale commercial deployment subject to 
successful performance of the pilot project.
The scale of the project shall be finalised  based upon the EOI 
responses/requirements.
12 Whether NTPC intends to issue subsequent RFP(s) for larger-scale CAES/LAES projects and if 
successful pilot developers may be given any consideration in such future tenders.
The modalities of the implementation shall be finalised  based 
upon the EOI responses/requirements.
13 Clarification on NTPC’s definition of “Advanced Compressed Air Energy Storage,” and whether 
adiabatic, isothermal/liquid-piston, or hybrid CAES configurations are acceptable. Applicant understanding is in order.
14 Whether fuel-assisted or externally heated CAES variants are excluded from consideration.
 Compressed Air-based Long Duration Energy Storage (LDES) 
comprises different  technologies which store energy using 
compressed or liquefied air  without involving any external fossil 
fuel assistance will be acceptable.
15 Whether Compressed Air Energy Storage (CAES) and Liquefied Air Energy Storage (LAES) 
technologies will be evaluated on identical technical and commercial benchmarks.
 Compressed Air-based Long Duration Energy Storage (LDES) 
comprises different  technologies which store energy using 
compressed or liquefied air  as specified will be evaluated on 
equal ground based upon the EOI data.
16 Whether NTPC proposes to identify and offer land/sites for pilot projects, or if site identification 
is to be undertaken by the Applicant.
The site shall be finalised during tendering stage based upon the 
EOI responses/requirements. However, applicant may  also 
submit recommended site(s).
17
In case underground storage (salt cavern / rock cavern) is proposed, whether NTPC will provide 
preliminary geological and geotechnical data, and how site suitability risks will be allocated 
between NTPC and the Applicant.
The modalities of the implementation shall be finalised based 
upon the EOI responses/requirements.
Sl. No. Applicant Query NTPC Reply
18
Whether NTPC has a preferred project implementation or cost-sharing model (EPC + O&M / BOO 
/ BOOT / Shared) for pilot projects. Are grants, viability gap funding, or sovereign-backed support 
mechanisms under consideration?
Applicant may submit his preffered  model.  However, modality of 
implementation will be  decided  by NTPC. At present no grant  / 
viability gap funding / sovereign backed support have been 
envisaged.
19 In BOO/BOOT models, whether NTPC envisages availability-based payments, energy-based 
payments, or compensation for grid services such as ramping, inertia, and system flexibility.
The modalities of the implementation shall be finalised based 
upon the EOI responses/requirements.
20 Whether NTPC has any indicative LCOS benchmarks or cost expectations for LDES technologies 
that Applicants should be mindful of.
The EOI responses of all the applicants shall be evaluated for 
consideration of further implementation.
21 Clarification on the key performance parameters proposed to be treated as guaranteed 
parameters for pilot projects (e.g., round-trip efficiency, availability, response time).
Guaranteed parameters for pilot projects (e.g., round-trip 
efficiency, availability, response time) as indicated in the EoI data 
requirement is for evaluation of responsive applicants proposals. 
However, same may be utilised for further finalization of tender 
document.
22 Whether NTPC proposes relaxed guarantee and liquidated damage provisions for first-of-a-kind 
(FOAK) pilot installations.
The modalities of the implementation shall be finalised based 
upon the EOI responses/requirements.
23 Clarification on the scope of “IP generated based on the pilot/utility scale plant” proposed to be 
co-owned by NTPC and the Applicant. Noted.
24 Whether Applicants will retain the right to use operational and performance data (in anonymized 
form) for global reference and future deployments outside India. Please refer clause no.2.13, Section-II of EOI .
25 Whether NTPC has any minimum Indian content expectations at the pilot stage, and how 
localization will be evaluated vis-à-vis technology maturity.
At present no such creterion have been envisaged in the EoI. 
However, evaluation of the applicant's offer will be based on 
totality of the offer and future potential.
26 Whether NTPC would support future localization/manufacturing of key CAES/LAES equipment in 
India as part of scale-up.
Govt. of India guidelines on Make in India Initiative is available to 
promote local content. 
27 Whether NTPC proposes to disclose evaluation criteria or weightages for shortlisting of 
Applicants.
No such criterion have been envisaged. However, data submitted 
by the applicants may be used for evaluation of the technologies 
and tender specification finalization, in case NTPC proceed for 
implimentation of Utiliy scale pilo.
28 Indicative timelines from EOI submission to shortlisting, issuance of RFP (if any), and award. The modalities of the implementation shall be finalised based 
upon the EOI responses/requirements.
Sl. No. Query NTPC Reply
1
It has been mentioned that NTPC will arrange for land lease. 
1. Do you have a list of potential sites – so we can consider those while working on the EOI response? 
2. Also, will transmission connection be arranged along with the land?
1. The site shall be finalised during tendering stage based upon the EOI responses/requirements.
2. Transmission connectivity upto the nearest ISTS shall be in the scope of the bidder. However, for the present 
EOI, the applicant shall submit the proposal excluding the transmission component.
2
Since this is long duration storage and likely be used once a day – can you also explore options of longer 
charging duration – say, 10 hours / 12 hours / 16 hours. This helps reducing the CAPEX. As we had 
discussed, this might increase the charging cost – but you can find the most optimum LCOE by balancing 
the charging cost and storage capex. I can connect and explain if this is unclear.
Charging  time shall be same as  discharging  duration i.e 8 hours as defined in Sl. No. D(2) , Annexure-4 of   EOI . 
Applicants need to submit the proposal accordingly.
In addition to the EOI requirements, the applicant may submit their recommended proposal.
3
Regarding the EoI in subjectline on for compressed air based including liquified Air-Based Long Duration 
Energy Storage System, I would like to kindly clarify if proposals on both CAES and LAES will be accepted 
or only proposals which exclusively include Liquid air storage (LAES) will be accepted.
Both proposals i.e. CAES or LAES are acceptable.
4
1. Based on Annexure 4, Clause D, we understand that only 2 configurations are being considered for the 
pilot:
     25 MW / 200 MWh
     100 MW / 800 MWh
     Is that the case?
2. For a pilot system, we can rely on storage chambers.
     Since the storage chambers are uneconomic, and since our solution is modular, we would prefer to 
develop a smaller pilot project.
    For example- 5 MW/40 MWh.
    Would that be possible?
1. Applicant's understanding is correct
2. In addition to the EOI requirements, the applicant may submit their recommended proposal alongwith detail 
technical data as per Annexure-3  and Annexure-4   of EOI.
TECHNICAL CLARIFICATIONS 1 to  Queries on Expression of Interest (EOI) 
for setting up 
a pilot/utility scale project for Compressed Air based including Liquified Air based Long Duration Energy Storage System (LDES) 