 
Bid Number: 
GEM/2026/B/7126461
Dated: 
10-03-2026
Bid Corrigendum
GEM/2026/B/7126461-C15
Following terms and conditions supersede all existing “Buyer added Bid Specific Terms and conditions” given in
the bid document or any previous corrigendum. Prospective bidders are advised to bid as per following Terms
and Conditions:
Buyer Added Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions
1
. 
Buyer Added text based ATC clauses
1.
  
Corrigendum-3 dtd: 10.03.2026 (consisting of 
‘Replies to Technical Queries 3’, 
‘Amendment N
o.3 to Technical Specifications’, 
‘Replies to Commercial Queries 2’, 
‘Replies to Technical Querie
s 2’, 
‘Amendment No.2 to Technical Speciﬁcations’, 
‘Replies to Commercial Queries’, 
‘Replies t
o Technical Queries’, 
‘Amendment No.1 to Technical Specifications’, ‘
Technical Speciﬁcations &
Scope of 
Work
’, ‘SPC’, ‘Formats’, ‘GPC’, ‘ITB’) has been Issued through "Buyer uploaded ATC d
ocument". The document uploaded under "Buyer uploaded ATC document " tab in this corrigen
dum shall supersede all previous versions of documents uploaded under "Buyer uploaded ATC 
document " tab.
2.
 Corrigendum-2 dtd: 25.02.2026 (consisting of 
‘Replies to Commercial Queries 2’, 
‘Replies to Te
chnical Queries 2’, 
‘Amendment No.2 to Technical Specifications’, 
‘Replies to Commercial Queri
es’, 
‘Replies to Technical Queries’, 
‘Amendment No.1 to Technical Speciﬁcations’, ‘
Technical Sp
ecifications & Scope of 
Work
’, ‘SPC’, ‘Formats’, ‘GPC’, ‘ITB’) has been Issued through "Buyer up
loaded ATC document". The document uploaded under "Buyer uploaded ATC document " tab in
this corrigendum shall supersede all previous versions of documents uploaded under "Buyer up
loaded ATC document " tab.
2.
 Corrigendum-1 dtd: 18.02.2026 (consisting of ‘Replies to Commercial Queries’, 
‘Replies to Tech
nical Queries’, 
‘Amendment No.1 to Technical Speciﬁcations’, ‘
Technical Speciﬁcations &
Scope of 
Work
’, ‘SPC’, ‘Formats’, ‘GPC’, ‘ITB’) has been Issued through "Buyer uploaded ATC d
ocument". The document uploaded under "Buyer uploaded ATC document " tab in this corrigen
dum shall supersede all previous versions of documents uploaded under "Buyer uploaded ATC 
document " tab.
3.
   Bids not accompanied by requisite EMD as per clause 4.0 of SPC (Special Purchase Conditions
) shall be outrightly rejected.
4.
    
The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee to
wards Bid Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding Documents o
nly. In addition, the format of the Insurance Surety Bond shall also be in accordance with the fo
rm of Insurance Surety Bond towards Bid security/Performance security included in the Employ
er’s Bidding Documents only. Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separ
ate sealed envelope shall be rejected by the Employer as being non-responsive.
5. 
Bidder may refer ITB (Instruction to bidder) clause 15.0 for Advisory Bank details for BG conﬁr
mations.
6. 
Bidder should submit the scope of work document duly signed and stamped with their compan
y’s seal /stamp as token of acceptance to the total scope of work of the bid.
1 / 3
7. 
Bidder has to mandatorily ﬁll the Annexure-12 (QR summary sheet) in support of reference doc
uments for meeting QR and upload the same along with the technical bid in Technical Cover. (R
efer ITB clause 26 for more details).
8.
 The Techno-Commercial Bid should not contain any price content entry. In case, the Techno-Co
mmercial Bid is found to contain any price content, such bid shall be outrightly rejected.
.
2
. 
Buyer uploaded ATC document 
Click here to view the file
.
Disclaimer
The additional terms and conditions have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of the Competent
Authority in Buyer Organization, whereby Buyer organization is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses
on the bidding process, its outcome, and consequences thereof including any eccentricity / restriction arising in
the bidding process due to these ATCs and due to modification of technical specifications and / or terms and
conditions governing the bid. If any clause(s) is / are incorporated by the Buyer regarding following, the bid and
resultant contracts shall be treated as null and void and such bids may be cancelled by GeM at any stage of
bidding process without any notice:-
1
. 
Definition of Class I and Class II suppliers in the bid not in line with the extant Order / Office Memorandum
issued by DPIIT in this regard.
2
. 
Seeking EMD submission from bidder(s), including via Additional Terms & Conditions, in contravention to
exemption provided to such sellers under GeM GTC.
3
. 
Publishing Custom / BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available without any
Category item bunched with it.
4
. 
Creating BoQ bid for single item.
5
. 
Mentioning specific Brand or Make or Model or Manufacturer or Dealer name.
6
. 
Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders.
7
. 
Floating / creation of work contracts as Custom Bids in Services.
8
. 
Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. (However, in bids for
attached categories
, trials are allowed as per approved procurement policy of the buyer nodal Ministries)
9
. 
Mandating foreign / international certifications even in case of existence of Indian Standards without
specifying equivalent Indian Certification / standards.
10
. 
Seeking experience from specific organization / department / institute only or from foreign / export
experience.
11
. 
Creating bid for items from irrelevant categories.
12
. 
Incorporating any clause against the MSME policy and Preference to Make in India Policy.
13
. 
Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses.
14
. 
Asking for any Tender fee / Bid Participation fee / Auction fee in case of Bids / Forward Auction, as the
case may be.
15
. 
Buyer added ATC Clauses which are in contravention of clauses defined by buyer in system generated bid
template as indicated above in the Bid Details section, EMD Detail, ePBG Detail and MII and MSE Purchase
Preference sections of the bid, unless otherwise allowed by GeM GTC.
16
. 
In a category based bid, adding additional items, through buyer added additional scope of work/ additional
terms and conditions/or any other document. If buyer needs more items along with the main item, the
same must be added through bunching category based items or by bunching custom catalogs or
bunching a BoQ with the main category based item, the same must not be done through ATC or Scope of
Work.
Further, if any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of
this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in
the bid details field in Seller dashboard after logging in as a seller within 4 days of bid publication on GeM. Buyer
is duty bound to reply to all such representations and would not be allowed to open bids if he fails to reply to
such representations.
*This document shall overwrite all previous versions of Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions.
2 / 3
This Bid is also governed by the General Terms and Conditions
3 / 3