Page 1 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
Invites 
Expression of Interest 
(EOI) 
 
for setting up 
 
 
A pilot/utility scale project for Compressed Air based including Liquified 
Air based Long Duration Energy Storage System (LDES)

Page 2 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS OF EOI 
 
This EOI document comprises of the following sections: 
 
 
 
(i) Section I : EOI Information 
(ii) Section II : Introduction 
(iii) Section III : Instructions to the Applicants 
(iv) Section IV : Consideration of Response 
(v) Section V : Application Form and Annexures 
Page 3 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section – I 
EOI Information 
Page 4 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
 
EOI No. NTPC/PE/ET&PR/EOI-06/2025-26 Date: 21.01.2026 
 
 
NTPC is Inviting Expression of Interest to set up set up a pilot/utility scale project for compressed 
air based including liquified Air-Based Long Duration Energy Storage  System. 
DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
a. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost from 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in 
b. Last date for submission of EOI : 23.02.2026 
c. Last date for queries/ seeking clarifications : 10.02.2026 
d. Date of opening of EoI response : 24.02.2026 
e. Response Validity : 6 months from    the  
last date for EOI 
Submission 
1.0 For consideration of EOI, APPLICANTs are required to e -mail signed and scanned copy 
of EOI duly filled and completed in all respect, through e-mail mentioned hereunder. Email: 
sankardask@ntpc.co.in / lalitgupta@ntpc.co.in 
2.0 NTPC shall not be liable for any postal/ Mail delivery issue delays whatsoever in receipt of 
EOI documents and EOI received after the stipulated date and time shall not be 
entertained. EOIs submitted without supporting document will summarily be rejected. 
3.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, cancel/withdraw the 
EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, APPLICANT 
shall not have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC bears no responsibility or liability 
of any kind in reference to the EOI. 
Page 5 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - II 
Introduction 
Page 6 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
 
1.0 ABOUT NTPC 
NTPC is India’s largest energy conglomerate with roots planted way back in 1975 to 
accelerate power development in India. Since then, it has established itself as the 
dominant power major with presence in the entire value chain of the power generation 
business. From fossil fuels it has forayed into generating electricity via hydro, nuclear and 
renewable energy sources. This foray will play a major role in lowering its carbon footprint 
by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
The total installed capacity of the company is 85,637 MW (including JVs) own stations 
include 27 coals based, 7 gas based, 1 Hydro, 17 Solar PV and 1 Small hydro plant. Under 
JV, NTPC has 11 coals based, 4 gas based, 8 hydro, 5 Wind and 25 Solar PV Plants. The 
capacity will have a diversified fuel mix and by 2032, non -fossil fuel -based generation 
capacity shall make up nearly 30% of NTPC’s portfolio. 
2.0 INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
2.1 India’s electricity system is undergoing a structural transition driven by rising demand and 
rapid renewable energy expansion, fundamentally altering grid planning and operations. 
As higher shares of variable generation increase the need for system flexibi lity, energy 
storage systems have become essential for ensuring grid reliability and effective 
renewable integration. Also, national projections indicate a sharp rise in storage 
requirements - about 8.68 GW/34.72 GWh by 2027 and nearly 47 GW/236 GWh by 2032. 
While energy storage is increasingly recognized as a key enabler of this transition, current 
deployment and planning are largely centered on short-duration storage solutions. As the 
share of variable renewable energy grows, this approach may be insufficien t for a large 
power system like India’s that has traditionally relied on coal-based generation to provide 
round-the-clock reliability. To ensure a secure and orderly transition toward a low- and net-
zero-emissions power system, there is a growing need to study and explore Long Duration 
Energy Storage (LDES) options with storage durations exceeding six hours.  The recent 
assessment by NITI Aayog indicates a growing reliance on longer -duration storage 
solutions to accommodate rising demand, effectively utilize surplus renewable generation, 
and strengthen system flexibility across RE-rich states like Karnataka, Gujrat, Tamil Nadu, 
Telangana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan.  
 
 
 
Page 7 of 28 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
2.2 Recognizing this need, NTPC has been actively exploring various Long Duration Energy 
Storage (LDES) technologies. In this context, earlier, NTPC published a global Expression 
of Interest (EoI) for establishing a pilot Long Duration Energy Storage System  during 
November 2022 . Based on the responses received, CO ₂-based energy storage was 
identified as a promising LDES option for pilot implementation. Accordingly, NTPC is 
currently implementing a CO ₂-based energy storage project at Kudgi, with a capacity of 
160 MWh (20 MW for 8 hours), to gain operational experience in utility-scale long-duration 
energy storage. NTPC R&D division is also working on Vanadium Redox Flow battery 
(VRFB) and has already demonstrated a pilot plant. 
2.3 Building on this experience, Compressed air Energy Storage system including Liquid Air 
Energy Storage and other form of advanced compressed air-based Long Duration Energy 
Storage (LDES)  with 8 or more than 8-hour storage technologies represents another 
promising option that warrant deeper examination as a complementary and potentially 
strategic LDES option. These LDES technologies are inherently suited for long -duration 
applications, offering discharge durations of 8 hours and  more. This capability is 
particularly relevant for effectively utilizing excess renewable generation during solar 
hours, while providing sufficiently long discharge to manage evening peaks and prolonged 
non-solar period demand that cannot be effectively addresse d by short-duration storage 
systems. 
2.4  Compressed Air-based Long Duration Energy Storage (LDES) comprises different 
technologies which store energy using compressed or liquefied air and generate electricity 
during discharge.  Compression of air may be using compressor or by other compression 
system like liquid piston. These technologies involve diverse design configurations and 
operating concepts, with varying system layouts, storage durations, scales, and site 
requirements, and are presently at different stages of development and demonstration. In 
view of this diversit y, there is a need to obtain structured inputs on technology design, 
development maturity, and deployment considerations.  
2.5 In view of above, NTPC intends to invite Expressions of Interest (EOI) from technology 
providers, developers, system integrators, and solution providers for participation in the 
setting up of a pilot / utility scale plant on  Compressed air Energy Storage system including 
Liquid Air Energy Storage and other form of advanced compressed air -based Long 
Duration Energy Storage (LDES) with  8 hours or more than 8-hour storage technologies. 
Compression of air using either compressor or any other compression system will also be 
acceptable. The objective of this EOI is to evaluate the current market landscape, 
technology readiness, technical performance, and operational characteristics of the 
technologies, and to assess their suitability and techno-commercial viability for  pilot / utility 
scale plant implementation under Indian grid and site conditions. 
 
Page 8 of 28 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
2.6 Through this EOI, NTPC seeks to assess the suitability of compressed air based or liquified 
air-Based or other form of advanced compressed air-based LDES system for large-scale and 
long duration energy storage applications for 8-hours or more than 8-hour storage, its ability 
to support renewable energy integration, and its contribution to grid stability through inherent 
mechanical inertia and operational flexibility. The EOI also aims to gather industry inputs on 
system configurations, capacity ranges, site requi rements, scalability, cost structure, and 
implementation timelines, with a view to enabling pilot/utility scale deployment of  Compressed 
Air-Based / Liquified Air-Based / Advance Compressed Air Based LDES projects in India. 
2.7 Accordingly, NTPC is inviting expressing of interest from Indian/foreign companies who may 
set up a pilot/utility scale   on compressed air based or liquified Air-Based or and other 
Advanced Compressed Air Based Long Duration Energy Storage project with 8-hour or more 
than 8-hour storage. 
2.8 To evaluate different Compressed Air-Based / Liquified Air -Based / Advance Compressed 
Air Based LDES  technologies on the same platform, applicants are requested to provide 
details on various design capacity parameters, operational data, and other information 
outlined in this EOI.        
2.9 The interested applicants will submit the technical data/ information, guarantee parameters, 
the total estimated project cost and shall propose the financial contribution to be shared by 
themselves and by NTPC and other information as sought in Section-V. 
2.10 The possibility of implementation of pilot/utility-scale projects may also be explored under 
any of the following project implementation models, based on the techno -commercial 
viability of the technologies. 
i. EPC + O&M: Project executed on EPC basis with ownership retained by NTPC, and 
Complete Engineering, Procurement & Construction and O peration & Maintenance 
carried out by the contractor for a defined period. 
ii. Build, Own, Operate (BOO):  Developer finances, owns, and operates the project 
and provides storage services to NTPC under a long-term agreement. 
iii. Build, Own, Operate & Transfer (BOOT):  Developer builds and operates the 
project for a concession period, after which the asset is transferred to NTPC. 
iv. Shared / Hybrid Model: Project is implemented with shared investment, 
ownership, and/or operational responsibilities between NTPC and Developer. 
 
2.11 Based on techno-commercial analysis of the responses in the EOI and further discussions 
with interested parties, if it is found commercially feasible, NTPC may go for utility scale pilot 
project installation / may not proceed with any project at this stage. 
2.12 NTPC reserves the right to implement the project either on nomination basis or through 
Request for Proposal (RFP) process amongst the shortlisted parties identified through this 
EOI Process. 
 
Page 9 of 28 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
2.13 IPR Rights 
a) Applicable for all EOI applicants  (TRL 6 and above) : IPR for technology will 
remain with technology provider only. However, intellectual property rights 
generated based on the pilot/utility scale plant for the application of technology will 
be co -owned by NTPC and the applicant after successful demonstration of the 
project. 
b) Applicable additionally for EOI applicants with TRL level 4 -5: If as per the 
mutually agreed terms and conditions, the financial contribution made by the EoI 
applicant is returned by NTPC following the successful demonstration of the pilot 
project, the intellectual property rights may be monetized separately during the 
commercialization phase of the technologies subject to mutually agreed terms and 
conditions. 
 
2.14 The response(s) received in the EOI/ information received in the EOI will be utilized by 
NTPC for: 
a. Identification for suitable technologies which fits the intended use cases  
AND/OR 
 
b. Formulation of specifications for various systems/stages required for execution of 
demonstration/commercial project(s) 
 
AND/OR 
 
c. Shortlisting of parties for forthcoming Request for Proposals (RFP) / tenders by NTPC for 
undertaking demonstration/commercial project(s) 
 
The Applicants may express their interest in respect of their offerings along with other 
inputs as indicated in relevant Annexures/formats. 
3.0 Broad Scope of Work 
The key roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders under the project shall include but not  
limited to the following: 
3.1 NTPC’s Role: 
 
• Land on lease basis for installation and commissioning of the system. 
 
3.2  Applicant’s Role 
• Installation of Complete plant and Operation & Maintenance based on the 
implementation model selected under clause no. 2.10 above excluding land. 
 
 
**** 
Page 10 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - III 
Instructions to the Applicants 
Page 11 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE APPLICANTS 
 
 
 
1.0 The Applicants should note that: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EOI or any query/clarifications/correspondences shall 
be in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, Application Form and Annexures given in Section-V shall 
be duly filled and sent to NTPC by the APPLICANT in soft copy. 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section-I (EOI Information) and Section-II (Introduction) 
thoroughly before filling in  and submitting the application form and annexures in 
Section-V. 
 
d. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two persons, with complete 
address, phone number and email address. 
 
e. NTPC Ltd. may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents and/ 
or seek clarifications from the Applicant(s) after the Deadline for submission of 
response, inter alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities in their 
responses. 
 
2.0 Enquiries and clarifications 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via e-mail: 
To: sankardask@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: lalitgupta@ntpc.co.in 
 
3.0 Corrigendum 
 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EOIs, NTPC may, for any reason, 
whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by Applicant (s), 
modify the EOI document. The amendment will be posted on the website and will be 
binding on the Applicants and the Applicant will give due consideration to the same, while 
they submit their EOIs, and would invariably enclose documents/ information, as required, 
Page 12 of 28 
 
12 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
on account of the amendment, as a part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its discretion, extend 
the deadline for the submission of EOIs. 
 
4.0 Preparation of the response to EOI 
 
The application of EOI consists of Section-V comprising the following annexures, which 
are required to be duly filled and submitted by the Applicant as part of their response to this 
EOI: 
 
Annexure-1 FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
Annexure-2 APPLICANT’S ORGANIZATION DETAILS TO BE SUBMITTED BY 
APPLICANT 
Annexure-3 TECHNICAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
Annexure-4 TECHNICAL DATA 
Annexure-5 DECLARATION FOR TRL VALIDATION 
 
5.0 Validity of the responses 
 
The Applicant shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to six (6) months 
after the response Deadline (“Response Validity”). NTPC reserve the right to reject any 
response, which does not meet the above-mentioned validity requirement. 
 
NTPC may solicit the Applicant’s consent for an extension of the period of validity of the 
response. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing. In the event any 
Applicant refuses to extend its response validity as requested by NTPC, NTPC shall 
terminate processing of such Applicant’s responses. An Applicant accepting NTPC 
request for validity extension shall not be permitted to modify its response. 
 
6.0 Submission of the response to EOI 
The responses to the EOI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail format- 
 
To:  sankardask@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: lalitgupta@ntpc.co.in 
 
Ref. EOI No. Dated 
 
 
Submitted to: 
Name, designation & address of the concerned officer of NTPC 
Submitted by: 
Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized signatory. 
The responses to the EOI should be submitted within the deadline at the e -mail addresses 
provided in Section-I of this EOI. 
Page 13 of 28 
 
13 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
7.0 Costs and expenses towards response to EOI 
 
The Applicants shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation of the 
response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution of the documents 
related to this EOI, NTPC shall not be responsible in any way for such costs, regardless of 
the conduct or outcome of this short-listing/ selection process. 
 
8.0 Disclaimer 
 
This Expression of Interest (EOI) has been prepared by NTPC Ltd. for response from 
Indian/Global Company/their Consortium/Affiliates/Representatives for setting up a 
pilot/utility scale project for Compressed Air based including Liquified Air based Long 
Duration Energy Storage System (LDES) . 
In submitting the response to the EOI, the applicant certifies that it understands, accepts, 
and agrees to the disclaimers on this page. Nothing contained in any other provision of 
the EOI nor any statements made orally or in writing by any person or party shall have the 
effect of negating or superseding any of the disclaimers set forth herewith. 
*** 
Page 14 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-IV 
 
 
Consideration of Response 
Page 15 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
CONSIDERATION OF RESPONSE 
 
Responsiveness check 
 
The responses submitted by Applicants shall be scrutinized and may be rejected in 
following conditions -to establish interest in setting up a pilot/utility scale project for 
Compressed Air based including Liquified Air based Long Duration Energy Storage 
System (LDES). Responses shall be deemed non-responsive for following reasons: 
 
• Responses that are incomplete, i.e., not accompanied by any of the applicable formats 
inter-alia covering letter power of attorney, applicable undertakings, provided in more 
details at annexures in Section-V. 
• Responses not signed by authorized signatory and / or stamped in the manner 
indicated in this EOI. 
• Material inconsistencies in the information/ documents submitted by the Applicant 
• An Applicant submitting more than one response to this EOI either itself or through an 
affiliate or subsidiary company. 
• Response validity being less than that required as per Clause 5 of section -III of this 
EOI. 
• Response being conditional in nature. 
• Response not received by the response Deadline. 
• Response having Conflict of Interest. 
• Applicant delaying in submission of additional information or clarifications sought by 
NTPC, as applicable. 
 
All bids that shall meet the responsive check requirements set out above in this section of 
the EOI document shall be considered as responsive. In case of non-submission of relevant 
details as above, the responses may be considered as “ non-responsive”, at the sole 
discretion of NTPC and will not be considered further. 
 
**** 
Page 16 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-V 
Application Form & Annexures 
Page 17 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
ANNEXURE-1 
 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
 
 
Date :   Place :   
 
To, 
……………………………. 
 
Sub.: (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
Ref.:  EOI No. , dated (the “EOI”) 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined, and 
understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
 
We confirm that neither we nor any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate Parent Company 
has submitted response other than this response directly or indirectly in response to the 
aforesaid EOI. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC, as amended. In token 
of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed & stamped by us and enclosed 
to the response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per provisions and formats of the EOI, without 
any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by 
NTPC in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
We hereby expressly waive any or all claims in respect of EOI process. We confirm  that 
there are no litigations or disputes against us, which materially affect our ability to 
participate or function under the obligations regarding EOI. 
Page 18 of 28 
 
18 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in electronic 
format sent via email to: sankardask@ntpc.co.in  CC to: lalitgupta@ntpc.co.in as per the 
EOI for consideration. 
 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of submission as 
stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC, if any. 
 
7. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the requirements 
stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and understanding. We 
would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response. 
 
8. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for acceptance for 
a period of six (6) months from the response Deadline. 
 
9. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed “Non-Responsive” 
as stipulated in Section-IV of this EOI. 
 
10. We declare that our firm is neither put on Holiday or Black-listed by any Government / PSU 
/ Private firm or Financial Institution. 
 
11. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
 
 
We remain, 
 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person) 
Page 19 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
ANNEXURE-2 
 
 
APPLICANT’S ORGANIZATION DETAILS TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
(Note: Documents in support of meeting the respective requirement shall be submitted 
by the Applicant.) 
 
1) Name of the Company 
 
2) Legal status of the Company 
 
3) Brief description of the Company including details of its business groups/subsidiaries/ 
affiliates: 
4) Existing Manufacturing facilities – Locations, Capacity 
 
5) Date of Incorporation: 
 
6) Date of Commencement of Business: 
 
7) Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any: 
 
8) Collaborations/tie-ups with manufacturer (if applicable), 
9) Details of Indian parties, if any, for installation, supply, services, and 
collaboration 
10) Financial Data of Organization (Attach Relevant document in proof of same) 
Applicant is requested to submit Annual financial turnover during the last three (3) 
preceding financial years. Applicant to submit audited Balance Sheet and Profit & 
Loss account for the last three financial years. 
 Financial year 
2024-25 
Financial year 
2023-24 
Financial year 
2022-23 
Turnover    
Net worth    
Profit    
 
***** 
Page 20 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
ANNEXURE-3 
 
 
TECHNICAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
 
Applicant shall duly furnish following information. 
 
 
1.0 About the Technology and Technology Provider 
Applicant shall fill the required details and attach relevant documents as per Table-1, 
Clause-A and Clause-B, Annexure-4. 
 
2.0 About the Reference Plant 
 
Applicant shall fill the required details and attach relevant documents as per Table-1, 
Clause-C, Annexure-4. 
 
3.0 About Proposed Pilot Project 
Applicant shall fill the required details and attach relevant documents as per Table-1, 
Clause-D, Annexure-4. 
 
4.0 Budgetary Cost: 
 
4.1 Estimated total capital investment for the proposed pilot project with cost breakup 
of all major components preferably as listed below along with scope of supply and 
services, inclusions, exclusions, terminal points, facilities required at site, tentative project 
schedule: 
• Energy Storage System and Associated Equipment 
• Civil/Structure/Infrastructure requirement 
• Control System 
• Installation and Commissioning 
• Miscellaneous Items 
• Package BOP, as applicable (as required for completion of the pilot project) 
• Safety and protection systems 
 
 
4.2 Estimated Annual O&M cost with spares and consumables. 
Page 21 of 28 
 
21 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Note: 
• Applicant shall separately mention taxes, duties, freight, insurance applicable for 
above items/project. 
• Applicant shall mention budgetary cost equipment supply for Indian item and imported 
item separately. 
• Financial contribution by the party/ proposed mode of project execution 
 
 
5.0 Project Timeline: 
Applicant shall mention project completion period from award of job till Commissioning 
and Guarantee Test Run with necessary details. 
 
 
 
 
 
(Sign & Company Seal) 
 
 
Authorized signatory 
 
 
 
 
***** 
Page 22 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
ANNEXURE-4 
 
(TECHNICAL DATA) 
 
Note: Applicant to attach relevant/supporting documents 
Sl. No. Description Applicant to fill 
(A) About the Technology Provider 
1. Type of technology proposed by Applicant  
2. Whether Technology is owned by 
Applicant 
Yes/No 
a If no, Name of Technology owner/ 
developer/ IP Owner 
 
b Registered office of Technology owner/ 
developer/ IP Owner 
 
c 
Whether Applicant has technology tie up/ 
collaboration with Technology owner/developer/ IP 
Owner 
Yes/No (Attached copy 
of Technology tie up/ 
collaboration 
agreement) 
d Validity period of agreement  
(B) About the Technology 
1. 
Write up of the proposed technology  
• Working principle  
• Key Components and subsystems involved- 
Mechanical, Electrical, Civil and Control and 
Instrumentation system, 
• Operating parameters for different 
components (Such as Operating pressure, 
temperature ranges, flow rate etc.) 
 
2. 
• Process flow diagram with write up including Balance 
of Plant (BOP) 
• General Arrangement (GA) Drawing 
 
3. 
Technology Readiness Level along with supporting 
documents (Certificate from end-
user/industry/laboratory/third party reputed 
organization/institute to be submitted. Suggested 
format attached as Annexure-5) 
 
4. Round-trip efficiency (design and expected at site 
conditions) 
 
5. Response time, Ramp rate   
6. Charge and Discharge Rate Control mechanism  
7. Details of Energy Management system  
8. Power Evacuation scheme  
9. Site requirements (land, underground storage/caverns 
if any, auxiliary systems) 
 
10. Expected system life   
11. Major degradation factors (if any)  
12. Scalability and modularity aspect  
13. Performance parameters, guarantees and factors 
affecting performance parameters 
 
14. Codes and standard details  
Page 23 of 28 
 
15. O&M and Safety Aspects  
17. 
Details of Effluent generation if any Hazardous 
material, if any, after end of life. Disposal method after 
end of life  
 
18. Recycling Aspect/ encouragement to circular 
economy if any  
 
19. Estimated Harness Potential in India  
20. Expected future cost reduction and justification of the 
same  
 
21. Cost Components of proposed technology, factors 
affecting cost and scope of cost optimization  
 
22. Capex, Opex, LCOS projections (year wise)   
23. Effect of discharge duration on Capex, space 
requirement and energy density (Attach Curve)  
 
24. Effect of system capacity on Capex, space 
requirement and energy density (Attach Curve)  
 
25. Share of Imported and local content on total project 
cost 
 
26. Potential for make in India utilizing majorly indigenous 
resources  
 
27. Expected Cost Reduction due to make in India and 
govt. policy support required if any  
 
28. Comparison with other energy storage systems for 
similar application  
 
29. Best use case, Merits and Demerits and limitations of 
the technology 
 
30. Details of investors, if any, for the technology and 
certificates  
 
31. Details of awards/ accolades, if any, given for 
technology/ innovation  
 
32. Any other relevant details (as applicable)  
(C) Details of reference pilot/commercial Installation(s) 
1. 
Name of project where Applicant/ Its 
Collaborator/ associate installed / is installing 
the proposed Air-Based LDES Project 
 
2. Name and address of owner of plant  
3. Scale of plant (Commercial/ pilot plant) 
4. Design capacity (MW/MWh)  
5. 
Type of Facility where reference pilot / commercial 
installation is installed (e.g., Research Lab / Industrial 
Plant / Utility) 
 
6. Duration of Testing Period  
7. Objective of Demonstration  
8. Capacity (MW/MWh) Demonstrated  
9. Date of award  
10. Date of commissioning of plant  
11. If installation not yet completed, Present status and 
date of expected completion 
 
12. Scope of work of Applicant (Furnish copy of LOA)  
13. Mass and Energy Balance Diagram  
14. 
Operating parameters for different components (Such 
as Operating pressure, temperature ranges, flow rate 
etc.) 
 
15. P &ID of main system & BOP and General 
Arrangement (GA) Drawing 
 
16. Round Trip Efficiency (Predicted)  
Page 24 of 28 
 
17. Round Trip Efficiency (Actual achieved)  
18. Energy Density (Wh/m3)  
19. Start-Up Time (Minutes)  
20. Response Time (Seconds)  
21. Ramp Rate (MW/Minute)  
22. Daily Self Discharge (%)  
23. Depth of Discharge (%)  
24. % Degradation (Yearly)   
25. Design Life (Years)  
26. Cycle Life (Numbers of charge - discharge cycle)  
27. Annual availability (Days per Year)  
28. Annual Down time (Days per Year)  
29. Fixed rate of charge and Discharge or variable?  
30. Land footprint (Square Metre)  
31. Utility  
a List of equipment with rated capacity  
b Equipment-wise power consumption and Total Power 
consumption (kWh) and Installed load of Plant  
 
c Water Requirement (m3/hr) and quality of water  
d Instrument Air (Nm3/hr)  
e Service Air (Nm3/hr)  
Page 25 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
(D) Details of the Proposed Pilot Plant 
  
Data for 200 
MWh 
(25 MW X 8h) 
Data for 800 
MWh 
(100 MW X 8h) 
1. Proposed capacity of the Project/Pilot Plant 
(MWh) 200  800 
2. Discharge Duration (Hours) 8  8 
3. Mass & Energy Balance Diagram   
4. Process flow diagram indicating parameters   
5. Round Trip Efficiency (AC-AC)   
6. Energy Density (Wh/m3)   
7. 
Operating parameters for different components 
(Such as Operating pressure, temperature 
ranges, flow rate etc.) 
  
8. Start-Up Time (Minutes)   
9. Response Time (Seconds)   
10. Ramp Rate (MW/Minute)   
11. Daily Self Discharge (%)   
12. Depth of Discharge (%)   
13. % Degradation (Yearly)   
14. Design Life (Years)   
15. Cycle Life (Numbers of charge - discharge 
cycle)   
16. Annual availability (Days per Year)   
17. Annual Down time (Days per Year)   
18. Fixed rate of Charge and Discharge or 
variable?   
19. Total Land Requirement (Square Metre)   
20. Utility   
a List of equipment with rated capacity   
b 
Equipment-wise power consumption and Total 
Power consumption (kWh) and Installed load of 
Plant 
  
c Water Requirement (m3/hr) and quality of water   
d Instrument Air (Nm3/hr)   
e Service Air (Nm3/hr)   
21. Voltage Level (KV)   
a Charging   
b Discharging/Generation   
22. Terminal Points and Exclusions   
23. O&M details   
24. Safety Aspects   
25. Spares and Consumables   
26. Guarantee/Warranty offered for the proposed 
pilot plant   
27. Previous experience in implementing the 
proposed technology   
28. Engineering strength of Applicant   
29. Any other technical details, applicant would like 
to highlight about the proposed technology   
Page 26 of 28 
 
30. 
Specific Geographic Location Required 
(Yes/No) 
If Yes, Provide details 
  
31. Input data (if any) required from NTPC   
32. Project Costing 200 MWh (25 
MW X 8h) 
800 MWh (100 
MW X 8h) 
I. Total Capital Cost   
a Energy Storage System and Associated 
Equipment 
  
b Civil/Structure/Infrastructure requirement   
c Control System   
d Installation and Commissioning   
e Balance of Plant, as applicable (as required 
for completion of the pilot project) 
  
f Safety and protection systems   
g Miscellaneous Items   
II. Operational expenditure  
(detailed breakdown of Opex components) 
  
33. Other Data 
i. i
i 
Detailed write-up of execution methodology 
including scope of different agencies 
 
ii.  % of Indian content of equipment supply  
iii.  • % of Imported content of equipment 
supply  
• Source Country 
 
iv.  Completion schedule of project (in 
months) 
 
v.  Financial contribution to be shared by 
Applicant (% of total Project cost) 
 
vi.  Proposed mode of execution  
(EPC+O&M, B.O.O, B.O.O.T, Shared) 
 
vii.  In case Applicant has technology tie 
up/collaboration with technology owner/ 
developer/IP Owner, detail scope of technology 
support from collaborator to be indicated 
 
viii.  Details of clearances and approvals required 
prior to implementation 
 
 
 
 -----End of Page----- 
 
 
Page 27 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
ANNEXURE-5 
 
Declaration for TRL Validation 
 
(To be certified by the end-user/3rd party reputed organization/institute (in case of lab-
scale/ own premises) where the technology was tested/ demonstrated/ witnessed) 
Purpose: 
This template is to be filled by the end-user/3rd party reputed organization/institute (in case of lab-
scale/ own premises) that provided the testing facility and/or observed the pilot testing of the 
proposed technology. It confirms whether the technology, developed by M/s _____________, has 
been successfully validated under laboratory environment/model or prototype installed, 
and trial carried out at relevant environment/ full prototype installed, and trial carried out at 
industrial environment as per TRL-______ criteria. 
 
A. General Information of End-User/Certifying Organization/Institute 
Field Details 
1. Name of Organization/Institute  
2. Address of Facility  
3. Name of Contact Person  
4. Designation  
5. Email / Phone  
6. Type of Facility (e.g., Research Lab / 
Industrial Plant / Utility) 
 
7. Duration of Testing Period From: _______ To: _______ 
 
B. Data to be certified 
Sl. 
No. Validation Criteria Response Remarks 
1 
a. Validation under laboratory environment 
                     OR 
b. Model/prototype installed, and trial carried out at relevant 
environment 
                  OR 
c. Full prototype installed, and trial carried out at industrial 
environment 
 Mark only those 
applicable 
2. Capacity of plant/model/prototype   
3. a. Round Trip efficiency (actual)   
b. Round Trip efficiency (predicted)   
4. Duration of Continuous operation that demonstrated (Hours)   
5. Operational safety and system integrity assessed and 
confirmed during testing (Yes/No)  
6. Testing witnessed or supervised by qualified personnel (Yes/No)  
7. Whether any major failure or unresolved technical issue 
observed during test (Yes/No)  
 
 
 
 
Page 28 of 28 
 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
C. Declaration 
We hereby confirm that the above -mentioned technology developed by M/s 
________________________ was successfully validated under laboratory environment/model or 
prototype installed, and trial carried out at relevant environment/ full prototype installed, a nd trial 
carried out at industrial environment. Based on our observation and available data, we confirm that 
the system has demonstrated consistent performance with  
Technology Readiness Level _________ (TRL-___). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes: 
• This document must be printed on the host organization's letterhead. 
• All fields are mandatory unless marked otherwise. 
• NTPC reserves the right to independently verify the claims through a technical evaluation 
committee. 
 
Signature Designation Date Official Stamp 
    