 
                                                                                            
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
MAKE UP WATER SYSTEM AND ASH DISPOSAL CUM AWRS PACKAGE 
FOR  
DARLIPALI SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT  
STAGE-II (1X800 MW) 
 
BID DOCUMENT NO.: CS-9551-132-9 
 
LOCATED AT 
DISTRICT SUNDARGARH, STATE OF ODISHA, INDIA, 
 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
  
IFB No.: CS-9551-132-9           Date: 24.01.2026 
Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_104236_1                   
 
A. NTPC invites on-line bids for Makeup Water System and Ash Disposal Cum AWRS 
Package for Darlipali STPP Stage-II (1X800 MW), at NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope-
I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid 
package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
B. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Brief scope of work for the subject Makeup Water System and  Ash Disposal Cum 
AWRS Package for Darlipali STPP Stage-II (1X800 MW), is as follows: 
  
The scope of Make-up Water System and Ash Disposal cum AWRS Pac kage includes 
Design, Engineering, Supply, Construction, Erection, and Testin g & Commissioning of 
complete Make-up water pumping system & MuW pipelines, Ash Disp osal & Ash water 
recirculation systems, HT & LT  Switchgear including all Civil, Electrical and Control & 
Instrumentation works etc. as specified in technical specifications. 
 
Salient Features of major system & equipment are as follows: 
 
I) MAKE- UP WATER SYSTEM: 
1) Make-up Water Pumping System comprising of 2x2950 m3/hr capacity vertical turbine, 
wet pit type MUW pumps along with electrical motor drives. The pumps are proposed to 
be installed in the existing Intake well MuW pump house. The pu mping system shall be 
complete with all accessories like REJ, motorised discharge & r ecirculation BFVs, NRV 
at pump discharge, forced water lubrication system consisting of two numbers (2 X 100%) 
of horizontal centrifugal type lubricating water pumps & its dr ives, filter (2 X 100%), 
Overhead tank, etc.  
 
2) Make-up Water Pipeline from Make-up water pump house to Raw water reservoir inside 
 
plant comprising of either  
a. 1x100% capacity (1000 mm dia., 12 mm thick, approx. 37 km ro ute length) mild steel 
pipes with 3LPE (3-layer polyethylene) coating, Permanent Impre ssed Current Type 
Cathodic protection system for ma keup water pipelines including  requisite temporary 
cathodic protection system + 1x1 00% capacity (900 mm dia, appro x. 2 km route length) 
DI Pipes K9 class or 
b. 1x100% capacity (900 mm dia., approx. 35 km route length) DI pipes K9 class + 1x100% 
capacity (1000 mm dia, 12 mm thick, approx. 4 km route length) MS pipe with wrapping 
coating, Transient Analysis with 60 (minimum) Nos ARVs, one (1)  no. electrical motor 
operated butterfly valve at MUW pump house end and one (1) no. manual butterfly valve 
at reservoir (Stage-II) end in makeup water pipeline, etc. 
 
II) ASH DISPOSAL & AWRS SYSTEM: 
 
1) Supply, erection and commissi oning of ERW/SAW pipes of grade  Fe-410 as per API-5L 
Gr. B/IS:3589 pipelines of 9.5 mm thickness, 500NB length 21000 m, and Cast Basalt 
pipes and bends for BA slurry Pipe 20 mm thick cast basalt line d MS fitting ( MS shell of 
6 mm thickness, 500NB) of length 2100m  for Bottom ash (BA) in lean slurry form and 
200NB Seamless carbon steel pipes for HCSD as per Technical Spe cification of length 
18000m for  Fly ash(FA) in high concentration slurry disposal f rom terminal point to new 
dyke  along with Garlanding and routing of ash pipeline inside the disposal area, 
extensions into the dyke at number of discharge points complete  with basalt lined pipe 
bends, structural steel supports etc. Routing of Bottom ash and fly ash lines shall be done 
separately into their respective lagoons. 
2) Design, Engineering, Supply, erection and commissioning of A sh Water Recirculation 
System which consists of 2X600m 3/hr capacity pumping system loc ated near ash dyke 
area and which includes connection from terminal point at disch arge of overflow lagoon, 
8.8 mm thick MS piping of 350 NB diameter and length 4000m as p er Technical 
Specification (from Pump House to terminal point)  including va lves, fittings, Supports, 
Pedestals, structural etc, EOT Crane for AWRS Pump House.  
3) Design, Engineering, Supply, erection and commissioning of d ust suppression system for 
the proposed BA and FA lagoon consisting of 2x200m3/hr capacity pumps, 7.1 mm thick 
MS piping of 200 NB diameter of length 5000m, 7.1 mm thick MS p iping of 100 NB 
diameter of length 2000m, 7.1 mm thick MS piping of 80 NB diame ter of length 2500m 
including valves, fittings, Supports etc 
4) Design, Engineering, Supply, erection and commissioning of t wo numbers Seepage water 
recirculation system at different location of new dyke each con sisting of 2x100m3/hr 
capacity pumps and piping including valves, fittings, supports etc 
 
III) ELECTRICAL WORKS: 
          
All associated Electrical drives & other Electrical works for the package as below. 
1) Transformers 
2) HT & LT Switchgears   
3) Bus ducts (If applicable) 
4) HT & LT Power cables and control cables 
5) Cabling, Earthing & Lightning protection 
6) Lighting 
7) Batteries and Battery chargers. 
8) 11KV OVERHEAD Lines  
 
IV) C&I WORKS: 
       C&I scope includes Design, Engineering, Manufacture, Sup ply, Erection, Testing & 
Commissioning works for C&I system of Make-up water pumps/ system and AWRS. This 
shall be consisting of following: 
 
1) Measuring instruments, Motor ized actuators, Instrumentation cables & PCP and 
 
associated items for Make Up Water Pumping system and AWRS. 
2) Make Up pumps /system and AWRS controls and Monitoring shall   be from Employer’s 
DDCMIS. However, interconnection of signals from these systems upto Employer’s 
DDCMIS panel shall be in the scope of Contractor. Also, Local c ontrol panels for seepage 
pumps shall be in the scope of Contractor.  
3) Airconditioned room for AWRS DDCMIS/Control room. Ventilated  C&I battery room in 
AWRS area. 
4) FDPS related C&I  
 
V) Associated Civil Works for completion of system including: 
1) Laying of pipes, crossings ac ross nallas (Basundhara, Lilari, Telanpalli etc), railway lines 
(3 no), NH/Pucca roads/village r oad crossing, drains etc. by co nstructing bridges, 
culverts, pedestals, underground crossing with concrete encasement etc. 
2) Modification required in existing Stage-I Make-Up Water Pump  House for installation of 
Stage-II MuW Pumps, pedestals/thrust blocks associated with val ves and discharge 
pipeline, dismantling of existi ng facilities as required for co mpletion of Stage-II System 
etc. 
3) Modification/alteration/addi tion works required in existing Stage-I MuW Switchgear & 
Control Room building for installation of Stage-II Panels/Equipments etc. 
4) Design and construction of s upporting pedestals for Ash slur r y  p i p e s  &  A s h  w a t e r  
recovery pipes, Ash water recirc ulation pump house, 02 nos of S eepage pump house, 
Energy dissipating structure, Disaster management room (Single storey building of size 
15m x 7.5m), Switchgear/MCC room as applicable. 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
C. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity. 
 
D.  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions ar e given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal  of NIC at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:  
 
Issue of IFB 24.01.2026 
Bidding Document No CS-9551-132-9 
Cost of Bidding Document               NIL 
Documents Download Date and Time From 24.01.2026 onwards 
Last date for receipt of queries 12.02.2026  
Pre Bid Conference Date 12.02.2026 from 1100 Hrs (IST) 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
Up to 1300 Hrs (IST) on 24.02.2026 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I 
(Techno-Commercial bid) 
25.02.2026 at 1530 Hrs (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II 
(Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno-Commercial Bid. 
 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be entertained by 
the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC portal 
of NTPC. 
 
 
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 5,00,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Five Crore only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS  E-BG/ 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE CO PY 
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is in vited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll th emselves on the website https ://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is m andatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidder s should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also  has the user manuals 
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall b e submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
 
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.  
    
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in thi s tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received  (if any) from Class-II 
Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, wi ll be eligible to bid only if 
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentio ned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Governm ent of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (CS) / AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-9650998979/9650993312 
E-mail: satrajitkumar@ntpc.co.in /vbtotle@ntpc.co.in  
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 Make-up Water System & Ash Disposal cum AWRS Pkg   Darlipali Stage-II (1X800 MW)     
 Page 1 of 2 
DARLIPALI STPP STAGE-II (1 X800 MW) 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS 
(MAKE-UP WATER SYSTEM & ASH DISPOSAL CUM AWRS PACKAGE) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the 
following shall also apply: 
1.0   Technical Criteria: 
The bidder should have supplied, engineered / got engineered, erected / got 
erected and commissioned / supervised commissioning of at least one (1) cross-
country piping system of minimum 10 Km of single route length, of Steel pipes, of 
diameter 500 mm NB / DN or above, which should have been in successful 
operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date of Techno -Commercial bid 
opening. 
Note: 
1. Cross-country shall refer to routing across open terrain outside Owner’s land,
involving one or more crossings like roads/rail lines/river/canal etc.
2. Single route length shall refer to the length of a single, continuous section of
pipeline (that may include pipe fittings & valves).
2.0    Financial Criteria: 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
₹88 Crores (Rupees Eighty-eight Crores only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day o f the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter 
of Undertaking from the Holding Comp any, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder 
does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net 
worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, how-
ever the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be 
less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However in-
dividually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of 
their respective paid up share capitals. 
APPENDIX-I to IFB
 Make-up Water System & Ash Disposal cum AWRS Pkg   Darlipali Stage-II (1X800 MW)     
   Page 2 of 2 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of 
the respective paid up share capitals and Y 1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share 
capitals. 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following 
further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding
Company.
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the
Company.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder 
is not able t o submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for clause 2.0 : 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves.
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the
assets, write back of depreciation provision and ama lgamation. Further any
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the
extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and
surplus.
(ii)  Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning
ascribed to them as per Companies Act 2013.
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening shall be
used.