DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900318204 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
1 of 3 
NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND MATERIALS, SECUNDERABAD 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)   
FOR 
Construction of paving work near newly construction material gate and in front of existing 
plant Main gate at NSTPP 
LOCATED AT 
NTPC Nabinagar Super Thermal power Project 
Post-Aditi Nagar, Distt.: Aurangabad (Bihar) Pin Code: 824304 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Date: 29.01.2026BIDDING DOCUMENT No.: 9900318204 
GePNIC ID: 2026_NTPC_104505_1
1.0 NTPC Limited  invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
Construction of paving work near newly construction material gate and in front of existing 
plant Main gate at NSTPP  
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through Domestic/ Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB 29.01.2026
Documents Download Date Start from 29.01.2026
Last Date of receipt of queries from prospective bidders 05.02.2026
Pre-Bid Conference date & time Not Applicable 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both Techno-
Commercial and Price)  
Up to 1500 hrs (IST) on 19.02.2026
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & Time 20.02.2026 at 1530 hrs (IST)
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL 
EMD/Bid Security in INR 5 Lacs 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900318204 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
2 of 3 
5.0 
6.0 
7.0 
8.0 
9.0 
10.0 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) port al of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last  date  of  receipt  of  Queries/  Pre-Bid  Conference  (if  applicable)  as  specified 
above. 
All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 5,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Five Lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE  SHALL  BE  REJECTED  BY  THE  EMPLOYER  AS  BEING  NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN  CASE,  THE  BID  SECURITY  IS  SUBMITTED  AS  E-BG/  THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND  TRANSFER  (EFT),  BIDDER  TO  SUBMIT  THE  COPY  OF  E-
BG/PROOF OF  E-PAYMENT  OF  BID  SECURITY  EITHER  IN  SEPARATE  SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
The Bidd er shoul d meet the minimum Qualifying Requirement s as stipul ated at 
Annexure-1 to IFB.  
 Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning  any  reason  whatsoever  and  in such  case  no  bidder  /  intending  bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
A complete set of Bidding Document s may be downloade d by an y interested Bidder from 
the websit e https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender i s invited under e-tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves on the websit e https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ using the 
option “online Bidd er Enrolment”. Th e said website also has the detailed guideline s on 
enrolment and participation i n the bidding proce ss including Bidd er Manual f or online fee 
payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
Only 'Class- I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in thi s tender, as defined in the 
bidding documen ts/ Public Procuremen t (Preference to Make in India) , Order 2017 and 
its subsequen t amendmen ts/ revision s issued b y DPIIT. The bidder s may apprise 
themselve s of the relevan t provision s of bidding documen ts in thi s regard before 
submission o f their bids. 
 MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT = 60 % 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900318204 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
3 of 3 
11.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
12.0  NTPC reserves the right to impose additional performance security wherever  required, at 
its discretion to safeguard the Company's interests for contract  execution. 
13.0  Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is 
considered to be qualified. 
14.0  Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
15.0 Address for Communication: 
Senior Manager (CS) / AGM (CS) 
Project CC&M 
5th Floor,  NTPC Intelligent Office Building 
SRHQ, Kavadiguda Road,  
Hyderabad, Telangana 500020 
E-mail: vipinsharma01@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in
Tel. No.: 040-27683448/ 0120-4946535 
E-mail: vipinsharma01@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
16.0    Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
       ANNEXURE – I 
Qualifying Requirements  for  Construction  of  paving  work  near  newly  constructed 
material gate and in front of existing plant Main gate at Nabinagar STPP. 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
1.1 The bidder should have executed ‘RCC Road/ concreting/ RCC  paving/building  works ’ 
within preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of Techno -commercial bid opening, 
meeting the following criteria:   
a) One order of value not less than INR 325 lakhs
OR 
b) Two orders of value not less than INR 203 lakha each.
OR 
c) Three orders order of value not less than INR 162 lakha each.
Notes for 1.1: 
1.The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the
criteria specified above,  even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not
completed/closed.
2.In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening duly certified by Project Authority shall be considered acceptable.
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority,
specifying the scope of work executed  by the sub -contractor in support of qualifying
requirements. Project Authority means the owner of the project with whom the main contractor
is engaged.
4. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture /Consortium /
Associate can also be considered provided:
A. The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures /
consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture agreement /
consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the bidder's scope of work and
break-up of quantities executed by them as individual contribution in the joint Venture
/ Consortium / Associate, duly authenticated by the Project Authority, meet the
relevant provisions of eligibility criteria.
B. In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated joint
venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break -up of quantities  between the
partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for
establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria above, the credit of executed
quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio of bidder's share in the integrated
joint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder establishes that it regularly undertakes
works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture
shall be duly authenticated by the Project Authority/owner.
5. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be
considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the breakup of basic
value and taxes.
6. For evaluation purpose, the Value of reference work, submitted by the bidder for
consideration, shall be escalated each year @5% from the date of completion of reference
work till the date of Techno-commercial Bid opening.
1.2  Financial Criteria: 
1.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be less than Ru pees  407  
Lakhs  only during  the  preceding  three  (3)  completed  financial  years  as  on the  date  of  
Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
1.2.2 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis,  the  unaudited  unconsolidated  financial  statements  of  the  bidder  can  be 
considered acceptable  provided  the  bidder further  furnishes  the  following  documents  for 
substantiation of its qualification. 
• Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with
copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.
• A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company.
1.2.3 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder does not meet the 
Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength 
of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies 
wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in 
combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share 
capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five 
percent) of their respective paid-up share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100  
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
of the respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up 
share capitals.  
1.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of  
Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit 
the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall 
be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate  would be 
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating 
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 1.2:  
 
1. Net worth means the sum total  of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
3. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
 
 