 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED  
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENTS 
(COVER PAGE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against this Bid Document No. / Specification 
and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise  used for purposes other than that for which it is 
specifically issued). 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Section I – Invitation for Bids (IFB) 
 
Section II – Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
 
Section III – Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
 
Section IV – General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
 
Section V – Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
 
Section VI – Technical Specifications (TS) 
 
Section VII – Forms and Procedures (FP)    
   
 Section-VII (Part 1 of 2) 
 
  1a. Envelope-I (Techno-Commercial)   
    (Bid Form along with Attachments) 
 
  1b. Envelope-II (Price)  
   (Price attachments and Price Schedules)  
  
 Section-VII (Part 2 of 2) 
                      
                    Other Standard Forms & Procedures  
   
 
 
 
Acronyms 
 
BDS Bid Data Sheet 
CIF Cost, Insurance and Freight 
CIP Carriage and Insurance paid to (place) 
CPM Critical Path Method 
EDI Electronic Data Interchange 
EXW Ex factory, ex works or ex warehouse 
FCA Free Carrier 
FOB Free on Board 
FOR Free on Rail / Road 
FP Forms & Procedures 
GCC General Conditions of Contract 
ICC International Chamber of Commerce  
IFB/NIT Invitation for Bids / Notice Inviting Tender 
ITB Instructions to Bidders 
SCC Special Conditions of Contract 
TS Technical Specifications and Drawings 
UNCITRAL United Nations Commission on International Trade Law 
INCOTERMS International Rules for Interpreting Trade Terms 
GST Goods and Services Tax 
Note : The terms EXW, CIF, etc. shall be governed by the rules prescribed in the current edition of 
INCOTERMS, published by the International Chamber of Commerce, 38, Cours Albert Ler, 
750008, Paris, France. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)/ 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, GROUP-1, RAIPUR 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
SECTION-I 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
NIT no. 9900317969 
Name of work Supply and installation of  6.6KV Vacuum circuit breakers  in place of SF6 
breakers at NTPC kawas 
 
 
1.    NTPC invites on -line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis  (Envelope-I: Techno-
commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from E ligible Bidders for aforesaid package-  for NTPC 
Kawas as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  NTPC intends to finance subject 
Package through Domestic Commercial Borrowings/Own sources. 
 
2.   Brief Scope of Work: “Supply and installation of 6.6KV Vacuum circuit breakers in place of 
SF6 breakers at NTPC kawas” 
 
3.    Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the bidding  
document, which are available for examination and sale at our e Procurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following details & schedule: 
 
NIT Date/ Document Download 
Commencement Date & Time 
As per GePNIC portal 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group-1, Raipur 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any) 
As per GePNIC portal 
Last Date & Time for Bid Submission  As per GePNIC portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per GePNIC portal 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately.  
Cost of Bidding Documents (Tender fee)  Not Applicable 
Bid Security/EMD 
Exemption NOT ALLOWED 
Rs. 2,00,000/- 
Benefit to MSME This is a WORKS CONTRACT.  MSME 
BENEFITS SHALL NOT BE  APPLICABLE 
FOR THE PACKAGE.  
Contract Period 12 Month 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable  
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity pact Not Applicable 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall  submit “ Techno-Commercial 
Proposal” and  “Price  Proposal”  online ( https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app),  within  the  bid  
submission  date  and time as mentioned above. Only Techno -Commercial proposals will be 
opened on the date and time mentioned above or corrigendum/s (if any) thereof.  
 Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
4.    All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security Deposit  / EMD in the form as stipulated in the 
Bidding documents in Clause 10 of Bid Data Sheet (BDS)- Sec III  
 
Additional option for submission of BG directly from the banker is also provided-  REFER BDS-
SECTION III Clause no 7.0 A, for further details. 
 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of tender 
fee is to be done only through online facility on GePNIC portal.  
 
Bid Security/EMD up to Rs. 1 ,00,000.00 (Rupees one Lac only) must be paid online 
through Gepnic portal ONLY. 
 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e-BG through 
NeSL platform. 
 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e- BG, due to some practical difficulties or 
constraints, physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG/ Insurance Surety bond as 
bid security, if opted for, should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to 
reach address for correspondence (Clause- 16 hereunder) before the bid submission 
deadline in physical form and scanned copy of BG/ Insurance Surety must be uploaded in 
the FEE folder in the tendering portal. 
 
EMD and Tender fee are not exempted in this tender being a works contract. Bidders are 
advised NOT to upload MSE/other document for availing exemption. Bids without 
adequate Bid Security and Tender fee, as per tender provisions, shall be outrightly 
rejected. 
 
5.   Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: - 
5.1   Technical Criteria 
5.1.1 Bidder should be a manufacturer of 6.6 KV or above rating Vacuum Circuit 
Breaker. 
5.1.2 Bidder should have supplied Vacuum Circuit breakers for 6.6kV or above panels 
with a rating of 40kA rms Breaking, 100kA peak Making and 40kA withstand for one (1) second, 
which should have been in successful operation in 6.6kV or higher voltage application for at 
least two (2) years. 
5.1.3 The Bidder should have executed “Supply and Retrofitting/ Erection/ Supervision of 
Erection & Commissioning / Supervision of Commissioning of Vacuum Circuit Breakers of 6.6 
kV or higher rating Switchgears” which should have been in successful operation for at least  
one year prior to the d a t e of Techno- Commercial Bid opening. 
5.1.4 The Bidder should have executed “Supply and Retrofitting / Erection/ Supervision 
of Erection & Commissioning / Supervision of Commissioning of 6.6 KV or Higher rating 
Switchgears including Vacuum Circuit Breakers” during the preceding seven (07) years, 
reckoned as on date of techno commercial bid opening meeting any of the following criterion: 
 
 
(i) Single order having executed value not less than Rs. 81 Lakhs. 
OR 
(ii) Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 51 Lakhs each. 
OR 
(iii) Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 41 Lakhs each. 
 
 
Notes for 5.1: 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria specified above, 
even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed / closed. 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of  Techno-Commercial bid opening 
duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub- contractor may also be considered provided the certificate issued 
by main contractor is duly certified by owner  specifying the scope of work executed by the sub- contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements.  
4. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be considered. In case of 
contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break –up of basic value and taxes. 
5. In case, bidder has executed reference work under two orders one for supply and one for services separately for 
the same installation, both the orders shall be considered as a single order for the purpose of evaluation. 
6. The bidder must submit Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration  certificate / BIS license / ISO 
certificate / Type Test reports /any other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer as per QR. 
 
5.2 Financial Criteria: 
 
5.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, should not be less than Rs. 101 Lakh (Rupees Hundred 
and One lakhs only) during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on the date of Techno -
Commercial bid opening. 
5.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. 5.2.1 above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. 5.2.1 above, 
provided that the net worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is 
at least equal to or more than the paid- up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno- Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from 
the Holding Company, supported by Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the bidder in 
case of award.  
 
5.2.3 In case the In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand- alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents  for substantiation of its 
qualification 
 
• Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder  along with copies of the 
Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
• A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
 
5.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of Techno -
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on 
the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
 
 
Note for Clause No. 5.2 above: 
1.  Net worth means  the sum total of the paid- up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves 
credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. 
Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
3. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act of India. 
 
 
1. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ subsidiaries / group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest 
of the Employer. The physical assessment shall include but not be limited to the assessment of 
office/facilities/banker's/reference workers by Employer. A negative determination of such 
assessment of capacity and capabilities may result in rejection of the bid. 
 
2. Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
3. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible 
to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
4. The bid document consists of the followings:  
 
              Section Name of Document 
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  
III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
VI Technical Specifications/Scope of Work, Drawings and Quality Plans 
VII  Forms and Procedures (FP) 
   Part 1 of 2- Bid Form along with Attachments and Price Schedules 
  Part 2 of 2- Standard Forms & Procedures 
5. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
6. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe that 
bidder is considered qualified. 
 
7. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
8. The bid specific data for the package mentioned Bid Data Sheet (Section III - BDS) shall amend 
and/or supplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidders (Section II - ITB). Wherever there 
is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section- V, shall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section- IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a 
conflict, the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding 
Document. 
 
9. NTPC reserves the right  to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate 
corrigendum/amendments published in the portal at any time. NTPC also reserves the right to 
extend/change the bidding schedule through publishing necessary corrigendum/amendments 
in the portal if the situation demands so at any time.  The corrigendum as decided by NTPC and 
deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions therein. This will prevail over the 
relevant provisions elsewhere in the bid document. The corrigendum/amendment as 
published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed that the 
information contained therein will have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders 
are advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendum, if any. 
            
10. UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of 
India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), 
will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN)  generated in line with the Gazette 
Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI).  It is mandatory to 
mention UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) by the bidders while submitting audited 
financial statements, other CA certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette 
notification dt. 02.08.2019. 
 
11. The Bidder would be required to register on the website. First time users are required to register 
themselves on NTPC tender website ( https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required 
details. Note that 1st time bidders can participate in NTPC Open Tenders without having NTPC’s 
Vendor Code.  
  However, users whose email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first 
time users not  having been allotted any vendor code by NTPC, should send a copy of the 
registration details to the e- mail address specified in this NIT under Address for Communication 
with following details at least three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
  
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank  
 
Vendor Code shall only be issued to the 1st time bidder during evaluation, who becomes L1. 
 
12. All references to the “Policy for Withholding & Banning of Business Dealings”  appearing 
anywhere in the Standard Bidding Documents shall be replaced with “Policy for Debarment 
from Business Dealings” , which is available at www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  and 
www.ntpc.co.in.  
 
13. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the subject 
package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
14. It is hereby certified that all the guidelines circulated by NTPC in pursuance of Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India) ‘PPP -MII’ Orders issued by DPIIT / MoP have been complied with 
for the subject tender. 
 
15.  Address for Communication 
1. Sh. A K Shivhare, 
DGM (C&M/CS) 
 
2. Sh. Amit Kumar Singh 
AGM (C&M/CS) 
 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515493/267 
Email: ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in / amitksingh@ntpc.co.in   
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
        Registered Office:  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 