NTPC LTD 
Vendor Development Cell, CPG-1, Raipur 
 
Subject : Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of “450 NB ERW Pipes 
(FE410) for thickness range 6.3 to 10 mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2) 
 
A MEG Details   
  MEG No. 16 MEG-95 
  MEG 
DESCRIPTION 
450 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness 
range 6.3 to 10 mm 
  RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
CPG-1/ VDC 
B TECHNICAL CRITERIA OF QR: 
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of ERW Pipes of size 450 NB or above 
diameter. 
2.  The applicant should have s upplied ERW pipes as per IS -3589 of 450 NB or above 
diameter and of minimum thickness 6.3 mm in last 5 years from the date of application 
for enlistment. 
3. The applicant should have a valid BIS license for IS 3589, size 450 NB diameter 
C Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at B) above 
QR-1: Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / 
ISO certificate / Certificate of registration fr om the concerned excise department / any 
other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material.  
QR-2: The PO (issued within last five years from the date of application for enlistment) in 
support of award and completion certif icate/copies of invoice to establish successful 
execution as per QR. 
 
QR-3: Applicant should have valid BIS license as on the date of application for enlistment 
or applicant has to submit documentary proof for renewal application of BIS license. 
 
Remarks: NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
D FINANCIAL 
CRIETERIA 
1. The Net Worth of the bidder shall not be less than 100% of the 
bidder’s paid up share capital as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year. In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net 
Worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its holding companies 
wherever applicable, the Net Worth of the Bidde r and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) 
of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be 
less than 100% of their total paid up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their 
respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less 
than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 
are individual paid up share capitals 
2. In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial 
statements on stand- alone entity basis, the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder c an be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the 
following documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
i. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the bidder along with copies of the Audited 
consolidated finan cial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
ii. A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding 
Company, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated 
Annual Report of the company. 
3. In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial 
year as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening are not 
available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In c ase, Bidder is 
not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited 
results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the fi nancial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit 
as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for Financial criteria: 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the 
meaning ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum of the paid- up share capital and free 
reserves. Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits 
and share premium account but does not include reserves credited 
out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit 
and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall  be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
E QUALITY 
PLAN (IF 
APPLICABLE) 
Attached  below  
F Special Terms & 
Conditions 
1. Please refer special terms & conditions (STC) of enlistment available 
at VDC portal vendor.ntpc.co.in. In addition to above vendors are 
requested to refer Special Conditions attached at Annexure-II.  
2. Vendors shall be enlisted for period of three years from the date of 
uploading of list on website, subject to fulfilment of the terms & 
conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications & Quality Plan for ‘Supply of 450 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness 
range 6.3 to 10 mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2)’ 
 
Technical Specifications: 
A) MEG Details 
1.0 MEG No. 16MEG-95 
2.0 MEG Description Supply of 450 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness range 6.3 to 10 
mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2) 
3.0 Responsibility Centre VDC 
B Technical Specifications Fe 410 ERW PIPE 450 NB AS PER IS 3589 
1.0 GENERAL 
Welded ERW Pipe (Black / Bare / Galvanized) of grade Fe 
410 as per IS:3589.   
2.0 Application 
As required    
3.0 Compliance with National Standards 
The material shall comply with the requirements of the 
following standard and also meet the requirements of this 
specification  
a) IS 3589 (With Latest Revision). 
4.0 Dimensions 
4.1 SIZE 
Outside Diameter – 457 MM  
Thickness – As per requirement (6.3mm to 10mm)  
Length – As specified. 
4.2 ENDS 
Beveled End 
4.3 TOLERENCE  
The Tolerance Shall be as per IS – 3589. 
However, Tolerance on Thickness Shall be as per IS – 3589 
or Zero Negative Tolerance (As per requirement). 
5.0 Mechanical properties, chemical properties and Hydraulic 
test pressure shall be as per IS-3589. 
6.0 Condition of Supply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pipe Shall be supplied with Antirust Coating on outer 
Surface for ERW Black / Bare Pipes. 
The pipes shall be marked with the ISI Mark. 
7.0 QA Requirements 
Pipes shall be tested as per standard quality plan. 


          Annexure-II 
The following Special Conditions shall supplement/amend the Special Terms & Conditions (STC) uploaded 
in the VDC portal. Wherever, there is a conflict, the provisions in special Conditions shall prevail over those 
in the STC. The corresponding clause number of the STC is indicated in parentheses. 
 
MEG Number 16MEG-95 
Name of Enlistment Package    Supply of 450 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness range 6.3 to 10 
mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2) 
 
S.No. Name of Clause Description of Clause 
 
1. 
SELECTION 
OF ENLISTED 
VENDORS 
FOR ISSUING 
TENDER 
ENQUIRY 
 STC Clause No 
13.0 
 
Additional Sub-Clause to STC Clause 13.0 with the following: 
 
Selection of Enlisted Vendors for Issuing Tender Enquiry 
 
For Category – 2 / Enlistment for Mega Contracts (Cost Estimate for 
CEGs above 4 Cr & MEGs above 15 Cr and both up to 50 Cr) 
 
(a) For both MEGs & CEGs: 
 
(Note: AATO is annual average turnover, EC is estimated cost and CP 
is completion period/delivery period in months)  
 
 
i) Delivery period up to one year:  
 
vendors having AATO>= EC 
 
ii) Delivery period > 1 year:  
 
Vendors having AATO>= ECX12/CP 
 
Only AATO of the vendors who meets the technical QR and Net Worth 
criteria of financial QR will be recorded in the system  for selection of 
Enlisted vendors for issuing tender enquiry.  
2. OFFLINE 
DOCUMENT
S  
STC Clause No 
20.0  
 
Replace existing STC Clause 20 with the following  
 
Vendor has to send hard copy of following documents in original, in 
the format given on the home page of website so as to reach the 
concerned responsibility centre. 
i. Letter of Undertaking (to be executed on non- judicial 
stamp paper of INR 100/-) 
 
ii. Power of Attorney (to be executed on non- judicial stamp 
paper of INR 100/-) 
Original Letter of Undertaking and Power of Attorney duly signed 
are to be sent by speed / registered post/ courier on fo llowing 
address so as to reach within fifteen days of submitting the 
application. Digitally signed/signed & scanned soft copies of the 
aforesaid documents shall be uploaded in the VDC Enlistment portal 
i.e.vendor.ntpc.co.in:  
 
AGM (Vendor Development Cell),  
NTPC Ltd, Western Region-II Head Quarter,  
Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar,  
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh,  
PIN code: 492018 
The envelope containing the Letter of Undertaking & Power of 
Attorney shall be super scribed as follows: 
“Letter of Undertaking” & “Power of attorney” for Vendor 
Enlistment 
MEG / CEG: 
Responsibility Centre: 
From------------------ (Name of company)  
3. EVALUATION 
CRITERIA & 
PROCESSING 
OF 
APPLICATIO
NS (STC Clause 
21.3) 
 
Replace STC Clause no 21.3 (Mapping of data of enlisted 
vendors) with the following 
 
Average annual turnover will be mapped against the vendors who 
meets the technical QR and Net Worth criteria of financial QR. The 
vendor has to submit financial details and upload supporting 
documents which shall be the basis for ascertaining their financial 
capability as per laid down policy of the company. Presently no pre-
determined financial criteria (Average Annual Turnover) is being 
stipulated. 
 
However, all appliants have to upload necess arily the following 
documents: 
 
i) Average Annual Turnover (AATO): Balance sheet and Profit & 
loss account statement for last three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of submission of application. 
 
 
In case where the audited results of the last preceding financial year 
are not available, certification of financial statements from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant may be considered acceptable. 
 
From this, Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of the company shall 
be worked out and shall be recorded against the  MEG for the enlisted 
vendors. This will be the eligibility limit for Average Annual 
Turnover of the respective enlisted vendor for sending tender 
enquiry later (but during the validity period of enlistment only) 
 
Selection of enlisted vendors for sending tender enquiry: 
When actual requirement emerges, based on the estimated cost 
and completion period required, selection of eligible vendors from 
amongst enlisted vendors shall be done as mentioned at Sl. No 1 .0 
above of this document. 
 
 