NTPC LTD 
Vendor Development Cell, CPG-1, Raipur 
 
Subject : Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of “450 NB ERW 
Pipes (FE410) for thickness range 6.3 to 10 mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-1) 
 
A MEG Details   
  MEG No. 16 MEG-33 
  MEG 
DESCRIPTION 
450 NB ERW Pipes (F e410) for thickness 
range 6.3 to 10 mm (CAT-1) 
  RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
CPG-1/ VDC 
B TECHNICAL CRITERIA OF QR: 
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of ERW Pipes of size 450 NB or above 
diameter. 
2.  The applicant should have s upplied ERW pipes as per IS -3589 of 450 NB or above 
diameter and of minimum thickness 6.3 mm in last 5 years from the date of application 
for enlistment. 
3. The applicant should have a valid BIS license for IS 3589, size 450 NB diameter.  
C Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at B) above 
QR-1: Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / 
ISO certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any 
other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material.  
QR-2: The PO (issued within last five years from the date of application for enlistment) in 
support of award and completion certificate/copies of invoice to establish successful 
execution as per QR. 
QR-3: Applicant should have valid BIS license as on the date of application for enlistment 
or applicant has to submit documentary proof for renewal application of BIS license. 
 
Remarks : NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
D Other Documents to be uploaded: In addition to the documents required in support 
of Qualifying Requirements as stated at C) above, following documents are also 
required to be uploaded by the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar works during previous five 
years from the date of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from 
the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against the 
POs to be submitted.  
2. Audited balance sheet  including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the 
audited result for the preceding financial year is not available, certification of 
financial statements from a practicing-chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In 
case, applicant is not able to submit the certificate from practicing chartered 
accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of the three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial years shall be considered 
for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as on date of 
application and certificate from the practicing chartered ce rtifying the financial 
parameters are not available 
3. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary.  
E Note-1 Similar works means: Supply of ERW pipe as per IS-3589 of 450 NB 
or above diameter and of thickness 6.3 to 10 (In mm) in last 5 years 
from the date of application for enlistment. 
 Note-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works 
executed/supplied against the reference PO  (also applicable to partly 
executed POs as on date of application). Where PO value is composite 
(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item -wise break-up of 
Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
F QUALITY 
PLAN (IF 
APPLICABLE) 
Attached as Annexure-I  
G Category of 
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-1 
H Technical 
Specification 
Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Ash Slurry 
Pipe of size 450NB is attached below as Annexure-II  
 
 


CLAUSE NO.  TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS (Annx-II) 
CPG 1- PPG (BOP) TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
Rev-0       ERW PIPE 450 NB Page 1 of 1 
 Fe 4 10 ERW PIPE 450 NB AS PER IS 3589 
1.0 GENERAL 
Welded ERW Pipe (Black / Bare / Galvanized) of grade Fe 410 as per IS:3589. 
2.0 Application 
As required    
3.0 Compliance with National Standards 
The material shall comply with the requirements of the following standard and 
also meet the requirements of this specification  
a) IS 3589 (With Latest Revision).
4.0 DIMENSIONS
4.1 SIZE
Outside Diameter – 457MM
Thickness – As per requirement (6.3mm to 10mm)
Length – As specified.
4.2 ENDS
Beveled End
4.3 TOLERENCE
The Tolerance Shall be as per IS – 3589.
However, Tolerance on Thickness Shall be as per IS – 3589 or Zero Negative 
Tolerance (As per requirement). 
5.0 Mechanical properties, chemical properties and Hydraulic test pressure shall be as 
per IS-3589. 
6.0 Condition of Supply 
Pipe Sh all be supplied with Antirust Coating on outer Surface for ERW Black / 
Bare Pipes. 
The pipes shall be marked with the ISI Mark. 
7.0 QA Requirements 
Pipes shall be tested as per standard quality plan. 