NTPC LTD 
CC-OS,  
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Qualifying requirements for Vendor Enlistment for supply of 200 NB MS ERW Pipes as per 
IS 3589  
 
A) MEG Details 
MEG No. 16 MEG-24 
MEG Description  200 NB MS ERW Pipes as per IS 3589 
Responsibility centre CC-CPC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1.  The applicant should be a manufacturer of ERW Pipes & have valid BIS License for IS:3589 - 200NB 
Pipe, the said License should be valid on the date of application    & 
2. The Party should have supplied 200NB Pipes as per IS: 3589 durin g last five years from the date of 
application.  
 
C) Document to be submitted by the applicants against qualifying requirements:  
1. QR-1: Copy of valid BIS License for IS: 3589, 200NB issued by Bureau of Indian Standards in the 
name of the applicant and the  attachments showing the details of the products for which the 
applicant is licensed. License should be valid on the date of application. 
2. QR-2: Copy of any purchase order executed by the applicant for supply of 200NB Pipes as per IS: 
3589 during last five years from the date of application and the execution proof document(s) for 
the same order. 
 
D) Other documents to be submitted:  
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, 
following documents are required to be submitted by the applicant for enlistment:  
 
1. Three POs of highest executed values of similar work during last five years from the date of 
application (PO date should not be more than 5 years old as on the date of the application) along with 
copy of invoice / completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful 
execution of supply against POs. 
 
2. Audited balance sheet including profit and loss statement for the previous three completed financial 
years reckoned from the date of application.  
In case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification of financial 
statements from a practicing chartered account may be submitted. In case, Applicant is not able to 
submit the certificate from practic ing chartered Account certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further a Certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the application format documents stating that the financial 
results of the company are under audit as on the date of Application and the Certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
3. Any other document in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit.     
E) Note-1 Similar works means: Supply of 200NB or higher size ERW Pipes as per IS:3589 
 Note-2 The executed value means basic value of qu antity of similar works executed / supplied against 
the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on the date of application). Where 
PO value is composite (i.e., including taxes etc.) the applicant to give item -wise break up of 
composite PO mentioning basic value, taxes etc.   
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS,  
EOC NOIDA 
 
 
Sub: Technical Specification for supply of 200 NB MS ERW Pipes as per IS 3589  
 
A) Details of MEG  
MEG No. 16 MEG-24 
MEG Description  200 NB MS ERW Pipes as per IS 3589  
Responsibility centre CC-CPC 
B) Technical Specifications 
 
200 NB MS ERW Pipes as per IS 3589   
Other details shall be as per User’s requirement & shall be given in Individual Tenders. 
 