NTPC LTD 
VDC, RAIPUR 
Sub:  Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for ‘Supply of 300 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness range 
6.3 to 10 mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2)’ 
A) MEG Details 
1.0 MEG No. 16MEG-98 
2.0 MEG Description Supply of 300 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness range 6.3 to 10 mm as per 
IS 3589 (CAT-2) 
3.0 Responsibility Centre VDC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1.The applicant should be a manufacturer of ERW Pipes of size 300 NB or above diameter. 
2.The applicant should have supplied ERW pipes as per IS-3589 of 300 NB or above diameter and of 
minimum thickness 6.3 mm in last 5 years from the date of application for enlistment. 
3.The applicant should have a valid BIS license for IS 3589, size 300 NB diameter. 
C) Documents to be submitted in support of meeting Technical QR: 
QR-1: Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a   proof of 
being manufacturer of the required material. 
QR-2: The PO (issued within last five years from the date of application for enlistment) in support of award and 
completion certificate/copies of invoice to establish successful execution as per QR. 
QR-3: Applicant should have valid BIS license as on the date of application for enlistment or applicant has to 
submit documentary proof for renewal application of BIS license. 
Remark: NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
D) Financial Criteria 1. The Net Worth of the applicant shall not be less than 100% of the applicant’s
paid up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case
the applicant meets the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Comp any and/or Subsidiaries of its holding
companies wherever applicable, the Net Worth of the applicant and its
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid
up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than
75% of their respective paid-up share capitals.
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
of their respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up 
share capitals 
2. In case the applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on
stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the
applicant can be considered acceptable provided the applicant further furnishes
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification.
i. Copies of the unaudited uncon solidated financial statements of the
applicant along with copies of the Audited consolidated financial
statements of its Holding Company.
ii. A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the
format enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual 
Report of the company. 
3. In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date
of Techno -Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results
certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable.
In case, applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered
for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of
Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.
Notes for Financial criteria: 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue.
3. Net worth means the sum of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account
but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluati on of the assets, write
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted
or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.
E Special Terms & 
Conditions 
1. Please refer special terms & conditions (STC) of enlistment available at VDC
portal vendor.ntpc.co.in. In addition to above vendors are requested to refer
Special Conditions attached at Annexure-I.
2. Vendors shall be enlisted for period of three years from the date of uploading of
list on website, subject to fulfilment of the terms & conditions.
 
 
NTPC LTD 
VDC, RAIPUR 
Sub: Technical Specifications & Quality Plan for ‘Supply of 300 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness 
range 6.3 to 10 mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2)’ 
 
Technical Specifications: 
 
A) MEG Details 
1.0 MEG No. 16MEG-98 
2.0 MEG Description Supply of 300 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness range 6.3 to 10 
mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2) 
3.0 Responsibility Centre VDC 
B Technical Specifications Fe 410 ERW PIPE 300 NB AS PER IS 3589 
1.0 GENERAL 
Welded ERW Pipe (Black / Bare / Galvanized) of grade Fe 
410 as per IS:3589.   
2.0 Application 
As required    
3.0 Compliance with National Standards 
The material shall comply with the requirements of the 
following standard and also meet the requirements of this 
specification  
a) IS 3589 (With Latest Revision). 
4.0 Dimensions 
4.1 SIZE 
Outside Diameter – 323.9 MM  
Thickness – As per requirement (6.3mm to 10mm)  
Length – As specified. 
4.2 ENDS 
Beveled End 
4.3 TOLERENCE  
The Tolerance Shall be as per IS – 3589. 
However, Tolerance on Thickness Shall be as per IS – 3589 
or Zero Negative Tolerance (As per requirement). 
5.0 Mechanical properties, chemical properties and Hydraulic 
test pressure shall be as per IS-3589. 
6.0 Condition of Supply 
Pipe Shall be supplied with Antirust Coating on outer 
Surface for ERW Black / Bare Pipes. 
The pipes shall be marked with the ISI Mark. 
7.0 QA Requirements 
Pipes shall be tested as per standard quality plan. 


Annexure-I 
The following Special Conditions shall supplement/amend the Special Terms & Conditions (STC) uploaded 
in the VDC portal. Wherever, there is a conflict, the provisions in special Conditions shall prevail over those 
in the STC. The corresponding clause number of the STC is indicated in parentheses. 
 
MEG Number 16MEG-98 
Name of Enlistment Package    Supply of 300 NB ERW Pipes (FE410) for thickness range 6.3 to 10 
mm as per IS 3589 (CAT-2) 
 
S.No. Name of Clause Description of Clause 
 
1. 
SELECTION 
OF ENLISTED 
VENDORS 
FOR ISSUING 
TENDER 
ENQUIRY 
 STC Clause No 
13.0 
 
Additional Sub-Clause to STC Clause 13.0 with the following: 
 
Selection of Enlisted Vendors for Issuing Tender Enquiry 
 
For Category – 2 / Enlistment for Mega Contracts (Cost 
Estimate for CEGs above 4 Cr & MEGs above 15 Cr and 
both up to 50 Cr) 
 
(a) For both MEGs & CEGs: 
 
(Note: AATO is annual average turnover, EC is estimated cost 
and CP is completion period/delivery period in months)  
 
 
i) Delivery period up to one year:  
 
vendors having AATO>= EC 
 
ii) Delivery period > 1 year:  
 
Vendors having AATO>= ECX12/CP 
 
Only AATO of the vendors who meets the technical QR and Net 
Worth criteria of financial QR will be recorded in the system for 
selection of Enlisted vendors for issuing tender enquiry.  
2. OFFLINE 
DOCUMENT
S  
STC Clause No 
20.0  
 
Replace existing STC Clause 20 with the following  
 
Vendor has to send hard copy of following documents in original, in 
the format given on the home page of website so as to reach the 
concerned responsibility centre. 
i. Letter of Undertaking (to be executed on non -judicial 
stamp paper of INR 100/-) 
 
ii. Power of Attorney (to be executed on non -judicial stamp 
paper of INR 100/-) 
Original Letter of Undertaking and Powe r of Attorney duly signed 
are to be sent by speed / registered post/ courier on following address 
so as to reach within fifteen days of submitting the application. 
Digitally signed/signed & scanned soft copies of the aforesaid 
documents shall be uploaded i n the VDC Enlistment portal i. e. 
vendor.ntpc.co.in:  
 
Annexure-I 
AGM (Vendor Development Cell),  
NTPC Ltd, Western Region-II Head Quarter,  
Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar,  
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh,  
PIN code: 492018 
The envelope containing the Letter of Undertaking & Power of 
Attorney shall be super scribed as follows: 
“Letter of Undertaking” & “Power of attorney” for Vendor 
Enlistment 
MEG / CEG: 
Responsibility Centre: 
From------------------ (Name of company)  
3. EVALUATIO
N CRITERIA 
& 
PROCESSIN
G OF 
APPLICATI
ONS (STC 
Clause 21.3) 
 
Replace STC Clause no 21.3 (Mapping of data of enlisted 
vendors) with the following 
 
Average annual turnover will be mapped against the vendors who 
meets the technical QR and Net Worth criteria of financial QR. The 
vendor has to submit financial details and upload supporting 
documents which shall be the basis for ascertaining their financial 
capability as per laid down policy of the company. Presently no pre-
determined financial criteria (Average Annual Turnover) is being 
stipulated. 
 
However, all applicants have to upload necessarily the following 
documents: 
 
i) Average Annual Turnover (AATO): Balance sheet and Profit & 
loss account statement for last three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of submission of application. 
 
In case where the audited results of the last preceding financial year 
are not available, certification of financial statements from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant may be considered acceptable. 
 
From this, Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of the company shall 
be worked out and shall be recorded against the MEG for the enlisted 
vendors. This will be the eligibility limit for Average Annual 
Turnover of the respective enlisted vendor for sending tender 
enquiry later (but during the validity period of enlistment only) 
 
Selection of enlisted vendors for sending tender enquiry: 
When actual requirement emerges, based on the estimated cost and 
completion period required, selection of eligible vendors from 
amongst enlisted vendors shall be done as mentioned  at Sl. No 1 .0 
above of this document. 
 