 
NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC,  NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE   ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1 CEG No. TMD-18 
2 Brief description of CEG   Helium leak test for Condenser 
3 Responsibility Centre CPC 
4 Brief scope of work 
A. Finding air ingress points in to condenser negative pressure 
parts for high Dissolved Oxygen (DO) & low vacuum problem 
by on line Helium leak detection tests in Units of NTPC, 
categorizing ingresses into very small, small, medium, large 
and very large with appropriat e tagging at ingress points for 
easy identification and photographing(digital) of the ingress 
points. 
 
B. Mobilization of Helium leak detector equipment along with 
accessories, Helium gas (min 03 no’s filled  cylinders) and 
required special tools & tackles and manpower 
 
C. Helium leak detector equipment and accessories and tools & 
tackles and any other consumables required are to be brought 
by the agency and transportation of the same including transit 
and other insurances are in the scope of the agency. 
 
D. Necessary scaffoldings & platforms required and power 
supply and lighting arrangements for carrying out the 
checking works will be provided by NTPC free of charges. 
5 
Technical Qualifying 
Requirements 
The applicant must have successfully carried out Helium leak 
testing of at least five condensers of 200MW & above capacity  
units during the preceding five years from the last date of 
submission of application for enlistment. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor in 
support of meeting QR 
Relevant legible PO copy with detailed scope of work, terms and 
conditions, BOQ and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
deviation statement. NTPC may ask further document if 
necessary. 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC,  NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE   ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
CEG No. TMD-18 
6 Additional Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar 
work during previous five years from the date of application and 
Copy of Completion Certificate  /RA Bill/Final Deviation 
Statement from the concerned client in support of successful 
execution of work against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2.  Audited balance sheet including profit and loss statement for 
the previous three completed financial years reckoned from the 
date of application. In case the audited results for the preceding 
financial year is not available, certification of financial 
statements from a practicing chartered account may be 
submitted. In case, Applicant is not able to submit the certificate 
from practicing chartered Account certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years proceeding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further a Certificate w ould 
be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
application format documents stating that the financial results of 
the company are under audit as on the date of Application and 
the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
3.  NSIC /SSI / MSME registration certificate, if any 
 
4.  PF and GST registration certificate 
 
5.  Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
7 Notes: Similar work means:  
Helium Leak Testing Service for Condenser in any 
Thermal  / Nuclear Power plants 
NOTE: 
Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including taxes etc.), the applicant has to give 
breakup of composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes 
etc 
 