Special Instruction to the Vendors for AST-01 
(Applicable to Present Application) 
 
 
Note 1:  After finalization of present enlistment  AST-01 cycle all Rate Contact of 
ash transportation shall be tendered through AST-01 enlistment and only those vendors 
who are enlisted in AST-01 will get a chance to participate. 
 
Note 2: "All future Tender(s) for Rate Contracts (RCs) for Ash Transportation Packages in 
NTPC will be tendered amongst Eligible Enlisted Bidders of AST-01 after completion of 
this Enlistment  process/ cycle. No further claim / request / representation will be 
entertained from the Parties /  Vendors who chose not to participate in the present 
Enlistment Cycle of AST -01. Any such parties will  only get opportunity to Apply for 
Enlistment in next Enlistment Process/ Cycle”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
 
NTPC LTD 
 
SECTION-II QR & SOW 
 
ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS FOR TRANSPORTATION OF ASH THROUGH ROAD FROM NTPC PLANTS TO 
VARIOUS DESTINATIONS 
 
1.) REF NO. WR-I SSC-C&M-0002-(CEG AST-01) 
2.) NAME OF WORK TRANSPORTATION OF ASH THROUGH ROAD FROM NTPC PLANTS 
TO VARIOUS DESTINATIONS 
3.) NAME OF PROJECT / 
STATION 
NTPC Plants 
4.) BRIEF DESCRIPTION AND 
SCOPE OF WORK 
NTPC invites applications from eligible vendors for enlistment to 
be used for the future tenders of Transportation of ash through 
road from various NTPC plants to different destinations such as 
Road Projects, Flyover Embankments, Mines, Shoreline 
Protection Structures, Dam Construction, or any other 
destination as per the requirement of specific tenders having 
scope of work as brought out below. The enlisted eligible 
vendors shall be considered for the various tenders as per their 
execution capability defined under enlistment document 
hereafter. 
 
Further, the enlisted vendor(s) shall be considered for execution 
of the value of work up to INR 50 Crore under a future tender as 
per their qualification established under the process of 
enlistment. 
 
The scope of work of NTPC tenders will generally include 
Transportation of ash through road from various NTPC plants to 
different destinations of Ash utilization Avenues such as Road 
Projects, Flyover Embankments, Mines, Shoreline Protection 
Structures, Dam Construction, or any other destination as per 
requirement, including work of excavation, Loading of ash from 
Ash Dyke/Ash Silo of NTPC thermal power plant(s) by mechanical 
means, Transporting ash in a closed container / dumpers 
(Covered with tarpaulin) as per CPCB guidelines, Unloading and 
stacking (if required) at various destinations as per the 
requirement of specific tenders and complying to statutory 
norms and government rules. 
 
Suitable arrangements have to be made by the Agency for 
transportation of ash in an environmentally friendly manner. 
Agency has to ensure that no spillage of ash takes place during 
transportation. Ash is to be collected from NTPC plants as per 
availability on as-is-where-is basis. The Agency has to unload the 
ash throughout the stretch / length of road and other designated 
areas as indicated in the scope of work for specific tenders.  
 
Quantity Measurements and Payment Criteria will be specified 
separately in the Tender against the specific requirements 
5.) TECHNICAL  CRITERIA 
FOR QUALIFICATION  
An Applicant should have executed the following Works during 
the last 7 years from the last date of submission of Application: 
 
ROUTE 1: 
 
Construction of ‘Ash Dyke’/ ‘Embankment’/ ‘Earthen Dam’/ 
‘Road’ / ‘Site Levelling’ 
 
Note for Route 1: 
 
a) Strengthening and widening of roads will also be 
considered under “construction of road”. However, 
works involving only repair and maintenance of road(s) 
will not be considered as “construction of road” 
 
 OR 
 
ROUTE 2: 
 
The Work of Transportation through Road (including 
loading/unloading) of ‘Ash’ / ‘Any Earthen Material’/ ‘Any 
Mineral’/ ‘Coal’ 
 
OR 
 
ROUTE 3: 
 
The Work of “Earthwork including loading/unloading and 
transportation” in any Civil Works (other than those listed above 
in Route 1). 
 
Note for Route 3: 
a) Under Route-3 above, an Applicant can submit 
Application citing details of Civil Works as their 
experience / reference Works which are not covered 
under Route-1. 
 
In such Civil Works (under Route-3), the executed value 
of only those BOQ Items shall be considered for the 
purpose of calculating “Executed Value” which are 
pertaining to “Earthwork including loading/unloading 
and transportation”. Earthwork in respect of all kinds of 
soil, soft rock, hard rock shall be considered for the 
purpose of evaluation. 
 
Common Notes for Route 1 / Route 2 / Route 3 
 
a) In case of contract(s) under execution as on the last date 
of submission of application, the value of work executed 
till such date will be considered. 
 
b) For the PO/WO which were awarded prior to preceding 
7 years from the last date of submission of application, 
the value of work executed in the preceding 7 years from 
the last date of submission of application will be 
considered.  
 
c) Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-
contractor may also be considered provided the 
certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by 
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-
contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
 
 
6.) FINANCIAL  CRITERIA 
FOR QUALIFICATION 
FINANCIAL CRITERIA FOR QUALIFICATION 
 
 
    In addition to above, the Applicants will also be required to 
furnish and upload their audited financial statements along 
with all the annexures in support of following data: 
 
1) Annual Turn Over of last 03 (three) financial years  
 
2) Net worth of last FY:  Net worth of the Applicant in 
last FY as on the last date of submission of application 
should not be less than 100% of the Applicant’s paid 
up share capital. 
 
6.1 In case the Applicant does not satisfy the financial criteria, 
stipulated above on its own, its holding company would be 
required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements, 
provided that the net worth of such holding company as on 
the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to 
or more than the paid-up share capital of the holding 
company. In such an event, the Applicant would be required 
to furnish along with its application, a Letter of Undertaking 
from the holding company, supported by Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the Applicant in case of award. 
 
6.2 Net worth of the Applicant as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year (as on the last day of submission of application) 
should not be less than 100% of the Applicant’s paid up share 
capital. In case the Applicant does not satisfy the Net worth 
criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth 
based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
 
NOTES: 
 
1) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital 
and free reserves. Free reserves mean all reserves 
credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation 
of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from 
reserves and surplus. 
 
2) Other income shall not be considered for computing 
annual turnover. 
 
3) “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have 
the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies Act of 
India, in vogue 
 
7.) CRITERIA FOR 
ENLISTMENT  
 
(7.1 Execution capability 
based on technical 
criteria  
 
and  
 
7.2 Execution capability 
based upon financial 
requirement) 
7.1 Execution capability based on technical criteria: 
 
As already brought out, upon completion of the enlistment 
process, the enlisted vendor(s) shall be considered for execution 
of the value of work up to INR 50 Crore under a future tender as 
per their qualification established during the process of 
enlistment.  
 
The Execution Capability (EC) based upon Technical Criteria will 
be defined / calculated as under: 
 
Execution Capability (EC) = 1.25 x * Max Value of Work Executed 
in a Single PO / Work Order as established during evaluation of 
Applications (Under Route1 / Route2 / Route3) 
 
* Illustration(s): 
 
1)Maximum value of work executed in single PO of applicant 
is Rs 4 Crore. Then, his execution capability (EC) will be 
considered as 1.25*4=Rs. 5 Crores. 
 
2)Maximum value of work executed in single PO of applicant 
is Rs 20 Crore. Then, his execution capability (EC) will be 
considered as 1.25*20=Rs. 25 Crores. 
 
3)Maximum value of work executed in single PO of applicant 
is Rs 40 Crore. Then, his execution capability (EC) will be 
considered as 1.25*40=Rs. 50 Crores. 
 
Company and/or Subsidiary(ies ) of its Holding Companies 
wherever applicable. The net worth of the Applicant and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner 
should not be less than 100% of their total paid up share 
capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be 
less than 75% of their respective paid up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not 
be less than 75% of their respective paid up share capitals 
and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
6.3 In case the Applicant is not able to furnish its audited 
financial statements on stand-alone entity basis, the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Applicant can be considered acceptable provided the 
Applicant further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification: 
1.    Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
of the Applicant along with copies of the audited 
consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
2.  A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as 
per the format enclosed, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
Consolidated Annual Report of the Holding Company 
6.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial 
year as on the last date of submission of application, are not 
available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable.  
 
      In case, an applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, 
a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed, stating that the Financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the last date of submission of 
application and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
4)Maximum value of work executed in single PO of applicant 
is Rs 45 Crore. Then, his execution capability (EC) will be 
considered as Rs. 50 Crores. 
 
5)Maximum value of work executed in single PO of applicant 
is Rs 100 Crore. Then, his execution capability (EC) will be 
considered as Rs. 50 Crores. 
 
Thus, as illustrated above, even if an Applicant / Vendor 
submits PO of executed value greater than Rs 40 Crore, his 
execution capability (EC) based on Technical Criteria will be 
limited and considered upto Rs 50 Crore. 
 
For the purpose of this enlistment, the executed value or 
maximum value of work executed (both shall mean the 
same) is defined hereunder: 
 
a. For Route1  
 
The executed value shall mean the total value of work 
executed under a single Purchase Order/Work 
Order/Agreement under Route1. Purchase Order/Work 
Order/Agreement having executed Value less than INR 4 
Crore shall not be considered. 
 
b. For Route2 
 
The executed value shall mean the total value of work 
executed under a single Purchase Order/Work 
Order/Agreement under Route2. 
 
However, if the work of “Transportation through Road 
(including loading/unloading)” is part of some different 
nature of Work/ Purchase Order/Work 
Order/Agreement, then the total value of work executed 
in respect of similar Items will only be considered.  
 
Purchase Order/Work Order/Agreement having 
executed Value less than INR 4 Crore shall not be 
considered. 
 
c. For Route3  
 
The executed value shall mean the total value of work 
executed in respect of BOQ items/works as stipulated 
under Route3 (as per clause no. 5 above titled as 
“Technical Criteria” read in conjunction with Note) in a 
single Purchase Order/Work Order/Agreement. The 
Purchase Order/Work Order/Agreement having 
aforesaid executed Value less than INR 4 Crore shall not 
be considered. 
 
 7.2 Execution capability based upon financial requirement: 
 
As per the financial criteria stipulated above, vendors/applicants 
are required to meet minimum net-worth criteria. Vendors who 
are meeting the net-worth criteria and are considered for 
enlistment shall be identified along with their Average Annual 
Turnover of three years as established during this enlistment 
process 
 
 
8. Selection of enlisted 
vendors for issuing tender 
enquiry 
Selection of enlisted vendors for issuing tender enquiry: 
 
For a particular tender, eligible vendors shall be selected from 
the “list of enlisted vendors” considering the following as 
detailed in the detailed enlistment document: 
 
a) Execution capability based on technical criteria. 
 
b)  Average Annual Turnover of three Years. 
 
------------------End of Section-II-------------------- 
 