NTPC LTD  
      USSC, VDC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No. TMD-25 
2 Brief description of CEG Chemical cleaning of Condenser  tubes & Heat Exchanger 
tubes in turbine area. 
3 Responsibility Centre USSC-VEC 
4 Brief scope of work 1. Design & Documentation: Complete design and 
procedure submission for chemical cleaning and 
neutralization, including schematic diagrams, technical 
details for NTPC approval. 
2. Temporary Setup: Installation of a temporary system 
including chemical mixing tank, sufficient no. of pumps 
and   drain pipeline to neutralization pit (details shall be 
provided in the individual tenders). 
3. All valves, pipelines, instruments, tools, motors, and 
scaffolding needed for the setup to be arranged by the 
agency. 
4. Chemical Supply: Supply and testing of cleaning 
chemicals and corrosion inhibitor shall be in Agency 
scope or as mentioned in the tender documents. 
5. Cleaning Work: Manual/brush cleaning, opening of 
manholes, fixing dummies, and chemical cleaning 
through acid circulation per NTPC’s detailed procedure. 
6. Cleaning Procedure: Includes water filling, leak testing, 
acid dosing, temperature control, circulation, pH and 
parameter monitoring, neutralization, and sludge 
disposal. 
7. Post-cleaning Tasks: High pressure water jet cleaning, 
scale/foreign material removal, passivation, system 
flushing, and condenser inspection. 
8. Utilities & Support: Agency to arrange heating system; 
NTPC may supply auxiliary steam.  Agency to provide 
piping and gas venting setup. 
9. Completion & Handover: On satisfactory cleaning and 
NTPC clearance, agency to dismantle temporary 
system, restore original setup, and hand over clean 
condenser. 
10. The agency shall be fully responsible for equipment, 
execution, chemical wastage, safety, adherence to 
timelines, and compliance with environmental norms. 
11. Agency shall make its own arrangement for shifting of 
materials, T&P etc. required for the completion of work. 
12. Any minor work not mentioned above but required for 
successful completion of the testing job shall be carried 
out by the agency as per the instructions of EIC/ 
representatives. 
13. Depending upon the site requirement and job need, the 
agency may be required to work beyond normal working 
hours. 
14. The Contractor shall mobilize the manpower and T&P at 
the site well in advance to complete the job within the 
time schedule communicated.  
15. Work area: Turbine 
16. Other details of works as per specific station 
requirement shall be given in Tender documents. 
17. This enlistment shall be applicable for Chemical 
cleaning of Condenser & Heat Exchanger tubes in 
turbine area. 
 
5 Technical Qualifying 
Requirements 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment 
shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated here 
under: 
Technical Criteria: 
The applicant should have executed the work (s) of  Chemical 
Cleaning of Condenser Tubes  pertaining to at least one 
number of steam Turbine with Minimum Unit Size of 200 MW 
within preceding 05 (five) years reckoned as on the Last date 
of submission of application. 
 
6 DOCUMENT TO BE 
SUBMITTED BY VENDOR IN 
SUPPORT OF MEETING QR 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the 
stipulated Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of 
work, terms and conditions, BOQ POs (issued within 
last Five (5) years reckoned as on the Last date of 
submission of application in support of award and copy 
of Client's Completion certificate/RA Bill/ final deviation 
statement from the concerned client /copies of invoice 
to establish successful execution as per QR. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
 
7 Additional Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents 
are required to be submitted by the applicants applying for 
enlistment: - 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
similar work during previous five years from the Last 
Date of submission of application and Copy of 
Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation 
Statement from the concerned client in support of 
successful execution of jobs against each of the POs to 
be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement 
for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the Last Date of submission of 
application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available, then certified copy by a registered 
practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations 
available with the applicant. 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which 
the applicant wants to submit. 
7. NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, 
all documents/ facilities can be verified/ assessed if 
required. 
 
8 Notes 1) The word “Executed" mentioned in technical qualifying 
requirement means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started 
earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
 
2) In case of orders under execution, the value of work 
executed prior to the Last Date of submission of application 
duly certified by the applicant’s client shall be considered 
acceptable. 
Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-contractor 
may also be considered provided the certificate issued by 
main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the scope 
of work executed by the applicant in support of qualifying 
requirements 
 
3) Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has 
to give break-up of composite PO value mentioning basic 
value, taxes etc. Any separate re-imbursement / escalation will 
not be considered. 
 
4) “Similar work” means works as mentioned in the QR 
technical criteria. 
 
5) All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
 
 
 
 
9 Quality Plan Not Applicable 
10 Category of Enlistment Categoty-1 
 
 