Subject: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for Online leak sealing in Turbine, 
Boiler & other areas of power plant.  (CATEGORY-I Enlistment) 
NTPC LTD 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1   CEG No. TMD-26 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Vendor Enlistment for Online leak sealing in Turbine, Boiler & 
other areas of power plant.  (CATEGORY-I Enlistment) 
3 Responsibility 
Centre 
USSC-VEC 
4 Area of execution 
of work 
Valve / bonnet / Flange / Gland / Pipeline & other area of TG 
Power Cycle 
5 TECHNICAL 
Qualifying 
Requirement 
 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated hereunder: 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
The applicant  should have executed the work (s) of Online leak sealing work 
including supply & installation of clamps, in Power plant having minimum 
200 MW units , within the preceding 05 (ﬁve) years reckoned as on the Last 
Date of submission of application. 
6 Brief scope of work 
 1.Work envisaged is attending jobs by on-line leak sealing 
technique in Valves/pipelines/flanges in Turbine, boiler 
&other areas. 
 The following types of leakages are to be attended by online 
sealing method having pressure up to 300Kg/sq cm & 
temperature up to 600 Deg C.  
 a) Various valves gland leakages.  
 b) Various flange joint leakages and valve bonnet leakages. 
  c) Attending various pipeline leakages. 
  d) Installation & supply of ring /box clamps to attend 
leakages of valves, flange or pipeline which are of special 
nature and could not be attended by conventional online 
leakages attending method. 
 The size of pipelines for attending leakages may vary from 10 
NB to 500 NB. 
  2. Attending of leakages may be steam/water/oil/air lines of 
pressure starting from 1 to 300 kg/ sq cm and temperature up 
to 600 deg C. Leakage may be in other system like ash 
disposal, air conditioning etc. 
 Work should be carried out as per IS18159:2023 
7 Documents to be 
submitted as proof 
of meeting the 
stipulated 
Qualifying 
Requirements  
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, 
terms and conditions, BOQ POs (issued within last Five (5) 
years reckoned as on Last date of submission of application in 
support of award and copy of Client's Completion 
certiﬁcate/RA Bill/ ﬁnal deviation statement from the 
concerned client /copies of invoice to establish successful 
execution as per QR. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
8 Additional 
Documents to be 
Submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents 
are required to be submitted by the applicants applying for 
enlistment: - 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
similar work during previous ﬁve years from the last date of 
submission of application and Copy of Completion 
Certiﬁcate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the 
concerned client in support of successful execution of jobs 
against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Proﬁt & Loss statement 
for the previous three completed ﬁnancial years reckoned 
from the last  date of submission of application. In case the 
audited documents are not ready / available, then certiﬁed 
copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may 
be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certiﬁcate if applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certiﬁcate 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations 
available with the applicant. 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all 
documents/ facilities can be veriﬁed/ assessed if required. 
9 Note 1. The word “Executed" mentioned in technical qualifying 
requirement means that the applicant should have achieved 
the criteria speciﬁed above, even if the total contract is started 
earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
 2. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has 
to give break-up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, 
taxes etc. Any separate re-imbursement / escalation will not be 
considered.  
3. All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf  
4. In case the applicant has executed reference work under two 
orders one for supply and one for services separately for the 
same Installation/Plant, combined value of both the orders 
shall be considered as a single order for the purpose of 
evaluation. 
5. “Similar work” means works as mentioned in the QR 
technical criteria. 
 
10 Quality Plan  Not Applicable 
11 Category of 
enlistment 
 Category-01 
 
 