EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 1 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
NTPC RENEWABLE ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT NTPC REL 
BIKANER SOLAR PLANT 
 
(International Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9                                                               Date: 06.02.2026 
 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code: NTPCREL-2026-TN000002 
Bidding Document No: NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
1.0 NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NTPC REL), invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single 
Stage Two Envelope (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) basis 
followed by Reverse Auction for EPC Package for Development of 1000 MWh BESS Capacity 
at NTPC REL Bikaner Solar Plant. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Brief Scope of Works consists of the following: 
 
SCOPE OF WORK: The scope of work covers the following activities and services in respect of 
all the equipment & works specified and covered under the specifications and read in conjunction 
with “Scope of Supply & services” specified in Technical Specifications: 
1.01 Project is divided into single block as follows: 
Block-1: 250 MW / 1000 MWh (Single cycle 4-hour discharge) at NTPC REL Bikaner Solar 
Plant BESS capacity to be considered is the rated AC discharge capacity at Point of 
injection at ISTS substation. Bidder needs to consider aux consumption of BESS Plant 
during discharge to arrive at the discharge capacity of the BESS Plant. 
1.02 Design, Engineering, Supply, Packing and Forwarding, Transportation, Unloading, 
Storage, Installation and Commissioning of grid connected Battery Energy Storage System 
(BESS) on turnkey basis. 
1.03 Unloading at respective site, Erection, Testing, Commissioning, Integration of above 
equipment with existing 33 kV System to commission a complete BESS integrated with 
Solar plant and grid shall be included in scope of bidder.  
1.04 Design life of BESS including that of battery shall be of 25 years (with degraded 
capacity as per bidder’s proposal considering daily single cycle operation) from the 
date of commissioning. 
1.05 Batteries offered shall be rated for minimum 10,000 cycles of operation.  

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 2 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
1.06 The BESS Supplier shall take into consideration following loss parameters beyond the 
termination point (Point of Coupling) and up to POI while sizing the nameplate capacity of 
the BESS:   
Head Loss to be considered in sizing 
Power Trafo Losses 1% 
Transmission Line Losses 0.25% 
1.07 Bidder will guarantee minimum 92 % of dispatchable capacity at POI  across all 15 
years starting with 100 % of rated dispatchable capacity (as mentioned above) at 
CoD and 95 %for first year.  Dispatchable capacity at the time of handover shall be 
minimum 92%. 
1.08 Any augmentation required for meeting above criteria shall be included in scope of 
bidder. 
Minimum nameplate rated installed capacity of BESS shall be : 
 Deliverable capacity* Min Nameplate capacity 
Block 1 1000 MWh 1100 MWh 
• 100% of Dispatchable Capacity.  
1.09 Comprehensive O&M including associated warranty, annual maintenance contract 
(Service Level Agreement) and Insurance of BESS for period of 15 years shall be 
included in scope of bidder.  
1.10 Minimum monthly Round Trip Efficiency (RTE) shall be 80% including auxiliary 
consumption (Measured at Termination point/POC). 
1.11 Monthly availability to be maintained is 98%. Detailed Availability requirements and other 
details will be mentioned in detailed specifications. 
1.12 BESS capacity offered shall be suitable for meeting deliverable capacity at POI including 
reactive power compensation.  
1.13 Grid compliance study is excluded from scope of bidder.  However, inputs for conducting 
grid power study by owner to be provided by bidder. Grid compliance study. If required, for 
each augmentation shall be in scope of bidder. 
1.14 Reactive power compensations and power quality compliance for entire BESS system upto 
220 KV/400 KV grid interconnection point at ISTS switchyard is included in scope of bidder. 
1.15 Aux supply system for the BESS Plant from 33 kV termination point/POC shall be in the 
scope of Bidder . The aux supply required for Battery Container at site up to final 
commissioning shall be also in the scope of Bidder.  Bidder to ensure the delivery of items 
at site and other works related to BESS plant accordingly. 
1.16 The Bidder shall design the system in such a way that during non-solar hours the stand-by 
aux consumption of the BESS Plant shall be in the scope of Bidder. Accordingly, the bidder 
should design its BESS Capacity for the entire contract period. 
1.17 During operation of the BESS Plant, in case of grid failure, emergency supply requirement 
for BESS Plant shall be in the scope of Bidder. 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 3 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
1.18 DSM Charges applicable corresponding to the metering and scheduling of BESS Plant and 
attributable to Bidder shall be paid by bidder, during the Contract duration. 
1.19 Bidder shall carry out Engineering to execution works of civil, erection, installation and 
commissioning works of all the supplied equipment and equipment system(s). 
1.20 Bidder shall provide engineering drawings, data, process calculations, test procedures, 
Equipment layout, Drawings/Data sheets of bought out items, Performance & Guarantee 
Test procedure etc for review and approval of NTPC REL. 
1.21  Provide documentation for design and expected performance through design calculations, 
software, design drawings, equipment drawings, and modifications to the existing drawings.  
1.22 Complete manufacturing including conducting all type, routine and acceptance tests, Pre -
assembly, (if any), testing, pre -commissioning and commissioning and putting into 
satisfactory operation all the equipment including successful completion of initial operation. 
Scope shall include EMS configuration to operate BESS at various modes as per Grid requirement 
mentioned in specification and integrated operation with Solar plant and Plant Scheduling as per 
Grid/RLDC requirement during O&M. Bidder is required to provide Hybrid EMS which shall control 
the generation of Solar Plant as well BESS Plant and shall be properly integrated with Solar Plant. 
Further details shall be shared during detailed specification. 
1.23 Develop detailed start up and site acceptance plan. Reliability and Functional/Performance 
guarantee tests after successful completion of commissioning. 
1.24 Provide training for the operators, engineers, technicians, and maintenance personnel. 
1.25 Special tools and tackles, if any, required for maintenance of the plant. 
1.26 BESS should be in line with latest guidelines of CEA, CERC and LDC. BMS, EMS, Fire 
Safety of the BESS should comply with the latest IS or/and IEC or/and IEEE standards and 
guidelines issued by statutory authorities. Fire safety of the Battery and container  should 
be in line with latest Indian or/and international standards.  
1.27 All equipment, materials and services whether explicitly stated or otherwise and that are 
necessary for the satisfactory operation of the BESS system and its integration with owner’s 
system at 33 KV , as described in the specification shall be deemed to be  included in the 
scope of work. 
1.28 Further the bidder has to obtain site -specific data from the owner in preparation for 
developing installation and implementation plans. All other details will be provided in the 
IFB. 
Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical features/specification of equipment/ 
systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Document shall be final and binding. 
1.0 TERMINAL POINT/ Point of Coupling (POC) 
The terminal point/ Point of Coupling (POC) under the scope of this assignment shall be up to 
commissioning and Integration with Owner’s 33 KV pooling switchgear. 
 
 
The detailed scope of work is as defined in bidding document No.: NREL-CS-5800-
004(BESS1)-9. 
3.0 NTPC REL intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources/ Borrowings. 
 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 4 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
4.0 Detailed specification, Scope of work and Terms & Conditions are given in the bidding documents, 
which are available for examination and downloading at e-tender portal (as specified in this notice) 
and as per the following schedule: 
*Note: Bidders are advised to visit the ETS portal (https://www.bharat -
electronictender.com) for updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference as specified above. 
 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code (TSC) NTPCREL-2026-TN000002 
IFB Date 06.02.2026* 
Period of Downloading of Bidding Documents From 12.02.2026* 17:00 HRS to 
23.02.2026* [up to 17:00 HRS 
(IST)] 
Pre-Bid Conference and Last Date for receipt of queries 
from prospective Bidders  25.02.2026* 
Last Date and Time for receipt of bids comprising both 
Techno-Commercial Bid and Price Bid 11.03.2026* 15:00:00 (IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-Commercial Bid  11.03.2026* 15:30:00 (IST) 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Not Applicable 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount as mentioned below in the form as 
stipulated in the Bidding Documents.  
For Indian Bidders INR 20,00,00,000/-  
[Indian Rupees Twenty Crore only] 
OR 
For Foreign Bidders 
USD ($) 2,171,100/-  
[United States Dollars Two million, one hundred seventy -one 
thousand, one hundred only] 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED THROUGH 
AS E -BG/THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT 
THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE. 
 
6.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
  
 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the 
Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 
and clause 2.0: 
 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 5 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
1.1 The bidder should have manufactured and supplied Batteries of cumulative capacity 
of minimum 80.0 MWh for grid interactive battery energy storage system(s), out of which 
at least one supply order should be of minimum 20.0 MWh capacity. The reference grid 
interactive battery energy storage system, where minimum 20 MWh capacity has been 
supplied in a single order, must have been in successful operation for at least six (6) 
months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
 
1.2 The bidder should have supplied, installed/ supervised installation and commissioned/ 
supervised commissioning of grid interactive battery energy storage system(s) of 
cumulative installed capacity of minimum 80.0 MWh, out of which  at least one  grid 
interactive battery energy storage system should be of minimum 20.0 MWh capacity. 
The reference grid interactive battery energy storage system of minimum 20.0 MWh 
capacity must have been in successful operation for at least six (6) months prior to the 
date of techno-commercial bid opening.  
OR 
1.3 The Bidder should have designed, supplied, erected/ supervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning of Solar Photo Voltaic (SPV)/Wind based grid 
connected power plant(s) of cumulative installed capacity of 40 MW AC or higher, out of 
which at least one plant should have been of 10 MW AC or higher capacity. The reference 
plant of 10 MW AC or higher capacity must have been in successful operation for at least 
six (6) months prior to the date of techno commercial bid opening. 
OR 
1.4 The Indian  Bidder should have technical collaboration agreement with a Battery 
Manufacturer meeting the requirements stipulated at Clause 1.1 above or should have a 
manufacturing license from a Battery manufacturer meeting the requirements stipulated at 
Clause 1.1 above or should be a joint venture company of a Battery Manufacturer meeting 
the requirements stipulated at Clause 1.1 above. In case of technical collaboration/license, 
bidder shall furnish along with the bid a copy of such license/collaboration agreement done 
with the battery manufacturer and such agreement should be ongoing and valid for a 
period of at least 12 years from the originally scheduled last date of techno commercial 
bid submission. In case the bidder is a joint venture company of a battery manuf acturer 
meeting the requirements stipulated at clause 1.1, the bidder shall submit a copy of joint 
venture formation document along with their techno commercial bid. Bidder has to furnish 
an Undertaking jointly executed by the license provider/ technology collaborator/ JV 
partner qualified as per clause 1.1 and the Bidder along with its techno commercial bid for 
complete performance of the contract jointly  and severally as per format enclosed in the 
bid document, failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected. 
OR 
1.5 (i) The bidder should have executed in the  last ten (10)  years an industrial project 
either as developer or as EPC Contractor in the area of power/ steel/ oil and gas/ petro - 
chemical/ fertilizer/cement/ or any other process industry, of minimum financial figure 
as mentioned in table below, in a single project or single work and the  same must be in 
successful operation for at least one (1) year/ six (6) months* prior to the date  of 
techno-commercial bid opening. 
Total Quoted 
Capacity 
Minimum Financial Figure 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 6 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
1000 MWh INR 1530 Million 
(Indian Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred 
and Thirty  Million Only) 
*Successful operation:  
At least One (1) year for industrial projects other than RE sector i.e., Solar/Wind. 
At least Six (6) months for projects in RE sector (i.e., Solar/Wind) 
          AND 
 
(ii) The bidder should have executed at least one (1) Electrical Sub -station of 
minimum 33kV  voltage level, consisting of equipment such as 33kV or above 
voltage level circuit breakers and power transformer, either as developer or as EPC 
Contractor which must be in successful operation for at least one (1) year/ six (6) 
months# prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
# Successful operation:  
At least One (1) year for Electrical Sub-station in Projects other than RE sector i.e., 
Solar/Wind. 
At least Six (6) months for Electrical Sub-station in RE Projects (i.e., Solar/Wind). 
 
The works referred to at Clause 1.5(i) & 1.5(ii) can be in same or different projects. 
OR 
 
1.6 The bidder should be an Indian company registered in India and should be Group 
company/Holding Company/Subsidiary company of a firm meeting the requirement (s) of 
Clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 or 1.5 above. In such a case, Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking 
jointly executed by the firm qualified as per clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 or 1.5 and the  Bidder 
along with its bid for complete performance of the contract jointly and severally as per 
format enclosed in the bid document, failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0: 
a. For clause 1.1, reference projects for meeting cumulative manufacturing and supply 
experience of 80 MWh, may or may not be commissioned.  
b. For clause 1.1, the reference grid interactive battery energy storage system, 
where supply of minimum 20.0 MWh has been done, should be at a single 
location. 
c. For clause 1.2, Projects with Battery supplied by developer/owner as free issue 
item to bidder shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
d. For clause 1.2, the reference grid interactive battery energy storage system of 
minimum 20.0 MWh capacity should be at a single location developed by Bidder 
for itself or any other client. 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 7 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
e. For clause 1.1 and 1.2, Grid interactive Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) shall 
consist of Battery System (BS), Power Conversion System (PCS) & Energy 
Management System (EMS) and used for grid connected renewable energy 
application or energy time shifting/ peak shaving application or frequency regulation 
application or Load leveling application and the same shall have to be established by 
bidder by providing relevant supporting documents. 
f. For Clause 1.3,  the reference SPV/Wind based grid -connected power plant of 
10MWAC or above capacity should be at a single location developed by Bidder for 
itself or any other client. 
g. For clause 1.3, SPV based Roof -top/Floating solar power projects, which are grid 
connected, shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
h. For Clause 1.3, reference plants with solar PV module/Wind Turbine supplied by 
developer/owner as free issue item to bidder shall also be considered eligible for QR 
purpose. 
i. For Clause 1.3, bidder shall provide relevant support documents to establish that 
reference projects are Grid Connected. 
j. For clause 1.5, developer means an entity who has either executed or got executed 
the work/ project as owner of industrial projects. 
k. For clause 1.5, the execution of industrial project as EPC Contractor means that such 
EPC Contractor is responsible for all the activities i.e. Design/Engineering, 
Procurement, Construction (with/without civil works) and Commissioning of the 
project/work. 
l. For Clause 1.5, the portion of work related to power transformer such as supply 
and /or installation mentioned  at cl. no. 1.5  (ii) can either be done  by EPC 
contractor by themselves or by the owner. 
m. For Clause 1.5, bidder shall submit documentary evidence for the value of the 
project certified by a Chartered Accountant. The specified value of executed work 
shall be exclusive of Taxes. 
n. For clause 1.5, if the value of reference work is indicated in foreign currency, the 
exchange rate as on date of award of the reference work shall be considered. In case 
the exchange rate as on the date of award is not available, the exchange rate as on 
the next available day shall be considered. 
o. For establishing successful commissioning and operation of the reference projects 
as required in different clauses, bidder shall submit the certificate of successful 
commissioning and operation from the Owner of such reference project/plant. 
Certificate issued by owner in the name of Bidder/intermediary Organization shall be 
acceptable. However, if bidder in clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 is also the owner of the 
reference project or if the bidder in clause 1.5  is a developer, certificate of successful 
commissioning of the project issued from Government Renewable Nodal 
Agency/Government Enterprise/ Discom/ Electricity Board etc and evidence of 
successful operation from intermediary procurer/ procurer/Discom/ Electricity 
Board etc shall be submitted. 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 8 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
p. Direct/Indirect Order 
The bidder shall also be considered qualified, in case the award for executing the 
reference work has been received by the bidder either directly from the owner of the 
plant or any other intermediary organization. In such a case, a certificate from such 
owner of plant or any other intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished 
by the bidder along with its techno -commercial bid in support of bidder’s claim of 
meeting the qualification requirement as per different clauses. Bidder shall also 
submit a certificate of successful completion and  operation from the Owner in line 
with note(o) above. 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder should not be less than the financial 
figure mentioned in Table below, during the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on the date of techno-commercial bid opening.  
Total Quoted 
Capacity 
Minimum Financial Figure 
1000 MWh  INR 1530 Million 
(Indian Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred and 
Thirty Million Only) 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as 
on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would 
be required to furnish along with its Techno -Commercial bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from its Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclose d in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should 
not be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of bidder’s paid-up share capital. 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet 
the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company  and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (one hundred 
percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net 
worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective 
paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1, X2, X3 are 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 9 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of 
the respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share 
capitals. 
 
 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes 
the following documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company 
(ii) Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding 
Company. 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno - 
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered  Accountant shall be  considered acceptable. In case the 
Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited result of three (3) consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating  
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results 
of the company are under audit as on techno -commercial bid opening and  the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserves means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them 
as per Companies Act of India. 
iv. For financial figure indicated in foreign currency in Clause 2.1, the exchange 
rates as on seven (7) days prior to the last date of submission  of bid shall be 
used. 
v. ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 10 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
in a position to:  
a) Exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise. 
Or 
b) Appoint more than fifty percent of members of Board of Directors in the other 
enterprise. 
The meaning of Holding/Subsidiary/Group Company mentioned above shall be 
applicable for Clause 1.6 also. 
  
7.0 NTPC REL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
8.0 
(a) 
Interested parties are required to get registered with M/s ISN Electronic Tender Services (ETS) 
website https://www.bharat-electronictender.com (if not already registered).  
 
  
(b) The bidder shall be mandatorily required to submit a copy of “Non -Disclosure Agreement” 
duly signed by the authorized signatory as per the format enclosed (Annexure-A) along with 
the IFB to enable the Employer to authorize the Bidder for procurement of the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
In case of any non -compliance in submission of Non -Disclosure Agreement, authorization 
shall not be provided to the bidders for procurement of bidding documents. 
  
(c) Interested bidders are required to submit duly signed NDA prior to closing of Bidding 
documents sale period to enable the employer for authorizing the bidder to download the 
bidding documents online from the ETS portal 
  
8.1 Issuance of Bid Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered to be 
qualified. The bids shall be submitted online. Bidder shall furnish hard copy of Bid Security and 
other documents as detailed in Bidding Documents before the stipulated bid submission closing 
date and time at the address given below. 
 
8.2 After registration with ETS and submission of duly signed NDA as above, a complete set of Bidding 
Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from ETS Portal https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com with Tender Search Code NTPCREL-2026-TN000002.  
 
Interested bidders are required to ensure that they have downloaded the official copy of bidding 
documents against Tender Search code  NTPCREL-2026-TN000002 from website of ETS before 
closure of Bid Sale Period. If only free copy of Bidding Documents are downloaded from ETS portal 
or Bidding Documents are downloaded without confirmation or without generating official copy 
serial number, then the bidders will not be able to submit the bids.  
 
For technical assistance, interested parties may call ETS Helpdesk at 0124 -4229071, 0124 -
4229072. 
 
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 1000 MWh BESS CAPACITY AT 
NTPC REL BIKANER SOLAR PLANT  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 11 of 11 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
8.3 For foreign bidders, please refer Annexure-I to IFB regarding procedures regarding Digital 
Signature for Foreign Vendor. 
  
9.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
10.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
Further, the Ministry of Power has waived the requirement of registration, in respect of para 3 of 
DoE Order (Public Procurement No. 4) vide F No.7lI0l2021-PPD (1) dated 23.02.2023, for bidders 
utilizing lithium-ion cell technology, as per Letter No. F.No. 48-15/23/2025 dated 09.01.2026 issued 
from Ministry of Power (NRE Section) enclosed at Annexure-II to IFB. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
11.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
  
Contracts Services 
NTPC Renewable Energy Limited  
4th Floor, Renewables Building, NETRA Complex 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida 
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
Contact Persons 
Name & Designation Telephone No Mobile No E-Mail ID 
Om Prakash 
AGM (CS) +91-120-2356605 9650994070 omprakash08@ntpc.co.in 
Krishna M Goyal 
DGM (CS) +91-120-2356603 9413354964 kmgoyal01@ntpc.co.in 
 
Corporate Identification Number: U40107DL2020GOI371032, Website: www.ntpcrel.co.in 
 








 
Annexure-I to IFB 
ANNEXURE-I TO INVITATION TO BID (IFB) 
 
IFB No: NREL-CS-5800-004(BESS1)-9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F. No. 48-1512312025
Government of India
Ministry of Power
(NRE Section)
Shram Shakti Bhawan,
Rafi Marg, New Delhi-l10001
Dated the 9th Jantary,2026
To
1. Principal Secretaries/Secretary (Power/Energy) of all State Governments/UTs
2. CMDs, CPSUs (Power)
3. Head, REIAs
Subject: Registration waiver under clause 15(iv) of Department of Expenditure's Public
Procurement Order No. 4 dated 23.02.2023 in respect of utilizing lithium-ion cell technology
for Grid Connected Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) tenders.
Sir/Madam
The Ministry is in receipt of requests from BESS manufacturers seeking waiver of the
DPIIT registration requirement, for bidders with Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangements
with land-border sharing countries, using lithium-ion cell technology in grid-connected BESS
tenders.
2. India's revised NDC targets a 45o/o reduction in GDP emission intensity, 50olo non-fossil
installed capacity by 2030, and net-zero emissions by 2070, necessitating large-scale deplo5rment
of Energy Storage Systems (ESS) for a secure and reliable grid. CEA has projected the BESS
requirements of 208 GWh by 2029-30, against the existing capacity of about 0.5 GWh. The
domestic grid-scale battery manufacturing is in a nascent stage. At present,lithium-ion cells
remain the most mature and cost-effective technology used in the grid connected Battery Energy
storage system world-wide.
3. In view of the non-availability of adequate domestic manufacturing of lithium-ion cells in the
country, the Ministry hereby waives the requirement of registration, in respect of para 3 of DoE
Order (Public Procurement No. 4) vide F No.7lI0l2021-PPD (1) dated 23.02.2023, for bidders
utilizing lithium-ion cell technology, for 1 year from the date of issue of this letter, to facilitate
their participation in BESS tenders.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.
w*_"
(SuniiKumar Sharma)
Director (RCMAIRE)
Email: sunil. sharm a24@gov .in
Encl: DoE Order (Public Procurement No. 4) dated23.02.2023
Annexure-II to IFB
,:Copy to:
1. secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade.
2. National security council secretariat (As per para 15(iv) of Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure Procurement Policy Division Order No.F.7/10/2021-PPD(1)
dated 23.02.2023)