NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
BALANCE WORKS OF WAGON TIPPLERS AND ASSOCIATED CONVEYING 
SYSTEM PACKAGE  
FOR  
BARAUNI THERMAL POWER STATION, STAGE-II (2X250 MW) 
BID DOCUMENT NO.: CS-8004-155C-9 
LOCATED AT 
NH31, Barauni, District - Begusarai, State of Bihar, India 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.: CS-8004-155C-9  Date: 21.02.2026 
Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_104715_1 
A. NTPC invites on-line bids for Balance Works of Wagon Tipplers and Associated
Conveying System Package for Barauni Thermal Power Station, Stage-II (2X250MW),
at NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single
Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II:
Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly
mentioned hereinafter.
B. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK
The Brief scope of work for the subject “ Balance Works of Wagon Tipplers and
Associated Conveying System Package for Barauni Thermal Power Station, Stage-II
(2X250MW)”, is as follows:
"Salient Technical Features of the equipment/systems/services covered in the Bidding
Document No. CS-8004-155C-9 are mentioned below. These Salient Technical Features are
mentioned only to facilitate the prospective bidders to prima-facie understand the
requirements under the tender and shall not in any way limit or alter the scope of work and
technical features/specification of equipment/ systems/ services covered in the Bidding
Documents. Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical features/
specification of equipment/ systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Documents shall be
final and binding."
Coal is received through IR BOXN rakes at Barauni TPS and presently Wagon Tippler of
Stage-I is used for Coal feeding requirement of both Stage-II units of 250 MW which are
under commercial operation. Wagon Tipplers envisaged for Stage-II units are not erected.
Wagon tippler constructed under BSPGCL was settled during construction phase in pre-take
over period. The contract faced some problem during its course of execution which
necessitated retender for completion of system.
 
Civil works of Wagon tippler and associated system is being executed at site by owner. For 
balance works, substantial part of engineering activities has already been completed. 
However, complete study for the portion of scope in subject package shall be required to 
identify the materials still required to be designed/engineered/ procured/manufactured to 
make the system complete in all respects. 
The Bidder shall utilize the items available at site and the same will be issued as ”free issue 
items” for Erection, however scrutiny of materials available at site shall be required to identify 
the materials still required to be designed / engineered / reengineered/ procured/ 
manufactured to make the system complete in all respects to ensure completeness and 
readiness for commissioning. The package shall be executed on “As is Where is Basis” by 
completion of balance engineering, arranging balance supplies and completion of entire 
erection, pre-commissioning / commissioning and testing of balance Coal Handling Plant so 
as to make it ready for safe, reliable and sustained commercial operation of the plant. 
It is the responsibility of the contractor to carry out balance job and integrate the existing and 
proposed systems with each other. The intent is to complete balance works, Wagon tipplers 
and associated system capable of performing completely safe, reliable operation in a manner 
acceptable to the Owner. The contractor has to visit the site to assess the present equipment 
condition and collect further information, drawings, reports etc. (whatever is available at site) 
and make his own assessment to identify the requirement before quoting their offer. The 
Owner will provide all cooperation to the representative of the contractor in obtaining the 
required information during the visit to site. 
The brief scope of work for Barauni Wagon Tippler and Conveying plant package is as 
follows: 
Design, manufacture, supply, construction, erection, testing & commissioning works for the 
wagon tippler and conveying plant package of Barauni STPP on the basis of single point 
responsibility, completely covering the following activities and services in respect of Coal 
Handling system comprising of Wagon Tippler and conveyor system associated with 
electrical works, Air Conditioning & Ventilation System, Fire Detection & alarm system, 
Auxiliary Transformers, LT switchgears, LT power cables, DC Batteries, Battery Chargers, all 
Control & Instrumentation(C&I) with DDCMIS and HMIPIS 
i. Design and balance engineering/reengineering of balance equipment, system(s). 
ii. Complete manufacture including shop testing/ type testing. 
iii. Providing engineering data, drawings, Commissioning procedures and O & M manuals, etc. 
for the Employer’s review, approval and records. 
iv. Packing and transportation from the manufacturer’s works to site including transit insurance, 
customs clearance/ port clearance, if required. 
v. Receipt, unloading, storage, preservation, conservation and insurance of equipment at site. 
vi. Fabrication, pre-assembly, (if any), erection, testing and putting into satisfactory operation of 
all the equipment including successful completion of facilities. 
vii. Associated Structural works & Electrical works. 
viii. Commissioning and completion of facilities and Performance Guarantee Tests after 
successful completion of initial operation.  
ix. Furnishing of spares on FOR site basis and handing over to NTPC stores. 
x. Reconciliation with custom authorities, if applicable. 
xi. Satisfactory completion of the contract. 
        Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
C. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity.
D.  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:
Issue of IFB 07.02.2026 
Bidding Document No CS-8004-155C-9 
Cost of Bidding Document NIL 
Documents Download Date and Time From 21.02.2026 onwards 
Last date for receipt of queries 
frombidders
10.03.2026 
Pre Bid Conference Date 10.03.2026 from 1100 Hrs (IST) 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
Up to 1500 Hrs (IST) on 23.03.2026 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I 
(Techno-Commercial bid) 
24.03.2026 at 1530 Hrs (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II 
(Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno-Commercial Bid. 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by 
the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC portal 
of NTPC. 
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 1,00,00,000/- (Indian
Rupees One Crore only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/.
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering
activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.
 
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class-II 
Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if 
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (CS) / AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-9650998979/9650993312 
E-mail: satrajitkumar@ntpc.co.in /vbtotle@ntpc.co.in  
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
BALANCE WORKS OF BARAUNI WAGON TIPPLERS & ASSOCIATED CONVEYING SYSTEM PACKAGE 
Appendix-I 
APPROVED QR FOR BALANCE WORKS OF WAGON TIPPLERS AND ASSOICATED 
CONVEYING SYSTEM PACKAGE OF BARAUNI THERMAL POWER PROJECT (2 x 250 MW) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the bidder shall also meet 
the criteria specified below at 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 , and financial requirements stipulated in clause 2.0.0 
(as applicable).:   
1.0.0  Technical Criteria 
1.1.0  ROUTE- I (QWTM Route: Qualified Wagon Tippler Manufacturer Route):  
Bidder should have designed, manufactured/ got manufactured, supplied, erected /supervised erection 
and commissioned / supervised commissioning of at least one (1) number of wagon tippler suitable for 
tippling Indian Railway Wagons used for transportation of coal or other minerals which should have been 
in successful operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening.   
OR  
1.2.0  ROUTE- II (EPC organization in Collaboration/Association):  
The Bidder should be an Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) organization and should 
have executed, in the last 10 years from the last day of month previous to one in which NIT has been 
invited, industrial projects on EPC basis (with or without civil works) in the area of Power / Steel / Oil & 
Gas/ Petro-chemical/ Fertilizer/ Flue Gas Desulphurization/ Cement and/or any other process industry 
with the total value of such projects being ₹ 25 Crore or more. At least, one of such projects should hav e 
a contract value of ₹ 10 Crore or more. These projects should have been in successful operation for a 
period of not less than one (1) year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening.   
(A) The Bidder should also have a valid ongoing collaboration with QWTM meeting requirements of clause
1.1.0 on its own, valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the end of defect liability period of the
contract whichever is later. In such a case, B idder can either source the System from such
manufacturer or got manufactured the System as per the design and manufacturing drawings released
by such QWTM.
OR  
(B) The Bidder should have a valid ongoing collaboration with a design firm of international repute with
experience in the design/redesign of Wagon Tippler Systems. The Bidder should have successfully
executed or be in the process of executing at least one Wagon Tippler  revamping work of contract
value ₹20 Crores or more, covering the scope of Design, Engineering, Manufacturing, Supply,
Erection, and Commissioning.
Notes for Clause 1.2.0 
(i) QWTM (Qualified Wagon Tippler Manufacturer Route) means a single manufacturer meeting
requirement stipulated at clause 1.1.0.
(ii) Here the word “executed” means the scope of work under the contract(s) should have been
commissioned/completed, even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not closed.
(iii) The Bidder shall be required to furnish a Letter of support from Collaborator/Associate (QWTM or
design firm as applicable) for successful performance of the system valid for a period of seven (7)
years or up to the end of defect liability period of the co ntract whichever is later, as per the format
(Page 1  of  5)
   
BALANCE WORKS OF BARAUNI WAGON TIPPLERS & ASSOCIATED CONVEYING SYSTEM PACKAGE   
enclosed with the bidding documents. The Letter of support shall be submitted along with the 
technocommercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected.    
OR   
   
1.3.0 ROUTE- III: Consortium Route   
Bidder shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of two (2) corporate entities and shall collectively 
meet the qualifying requirements stipulated at (i) & (ii) below.    
   
Of the two (2) consortium partners, each shall necessarily be required to meet at least one of the following 
requirements: -    
   
(i) The Partner should be meeting requirement stipulated at clause 1.1.0.    
(ii) The Partner Should have executed Erection & Commissioning or Revamping/R&M work of Bulk 
Material handling equipment (Wagon Tippler or Stacker Reclaimer/Conveyor System of at least 500 
MTPH rated capacity) having contract value of 20 Crores or more in at le ast (1) plant which should 
have been in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening   
   
The Consortium partner meeting the requirement of clause 1.3.0(i) shall be the Lead partner.   
   
The Consortium will be required to furnish a legally enforceable Consortium Agreement among all partners 
along with Techno-commercial Bid holding themselves responsible and liable to the Owner to perform all 
contractual obligations related to their respective scope as declared in Consortium Agreement (limited joint 
and several responsibility), valid for a period of seven (7) years from the date of formation of the Consortium 
or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract whichever is later, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents. However, the lead partner of the consortium shall be jointly & severally responsible and 
liable to the Owner to perform all contractual obligations including the contractual obligations of all other 
consortium partners. Submission of Consortium Agreement is a mandatory requirement, and non -
submission shall lead to rejection of the bid.   
   
Notes for Clause 1.3.0:   
   
(i) Consortium partners should be corporate entities registered in India under the Companies Act 2013.   
   
(ii) Here the word “executed” means the scope of work under the contract(s) should have been 
commissioned/completed, even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not closed.   
   
(iii) The scope of each consortium partner shall align with the specific qualification requirements based on 
which that partner is being qualified.   
   
   
Notes for 1.0.0    
   
The value of executed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at current price level by 
adding 5% for each year on prorata basis after the end date of completion/execution of the reference 
work, till the last day of month previous to one in w hich NIT has been invited. The specified value of 
executed works is excluding any taxes and duties.   
   
   
 
 
 
(Page 2  of  5)
   
BALANCE WORKS OF BARAUNI WAGON TIPPLERS & ASSOCIATED CONVEYING SYSTEM PACKAGE   
2.0.0   Financial Criteria:   
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder (For Route 1.1.0 and 1.2.0)  
2.1.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 34 Crore (Indian Rupees Thirty Four Crore 
only) or in equivalent foreign currency.   
   
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided 
that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder 
would be required to furnish along with Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award.   
   
2.1.2 The Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less than 
100% (hundred percent) of its paid -up share capital. In case the Bidder does not satisfy the Net Worth 
criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding Company wherever applicable. In such a 
case, however, the Net Worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in a combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of their total paid-up share capital. However individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 
75% (seventy-five percent) of their respective paid-up share capitals.    
   Net Worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:    
   Net Worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3)/ (Y1+Y2+Y3) x 100    
   Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net Worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up 
share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.    
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone entity basis, the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the 
Bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification:    
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies of the 
audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.    
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated annual financial statements of the Holding Company.    
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid opening 
are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to  submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of the three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Fu rther, a certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bid documents stating that the 
financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of TechnoCommercial bid opening and 
the Certificate from the practicing  Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available.   
   
2.2.0  Financial Criteria for Collaborator/Associate (For Route 1.2.0) 
2.2.1  The average annual turnover of collaborator/Associate, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 3 Crore only (Indian Rupees 
Three Crore only) or in equivalent foreign currency.   
In case a Collaborator/Associate does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above 
on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
(Page 3  of  5)
   
BALANCE WORKS OF BARAUNI WAGON TIPPLERS & ASSOCIATED CONVEYING SYSTEM PACKAGE   
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Collaborator/Associate would be required to fur nish along with its Techno -Commercial bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per 
the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the Collaborator/Associate in case of award.    
   
2.2.2  The Net Worth of the Collaborator/Associate as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not 
be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid -up share capital. In case the  Collaborator/Associate 
does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net Worth based on the 
strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding Company 
wherever applicable. In such  a case, however, the Net Worth of the Collaborator/Associate and its 
Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid -up share capital.    
   
However individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 75% (seventy -five percent) of their 
respective paid-up share capital.    
   
Net Worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:   
 
Net Worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3)/ (Y1+Y2+Y3) x 100    
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net Worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up 
share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.    
   
2.2.3  In case the Collaborator/Associate is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator/Associate can be 
considered acceptable provided the Collaborator/Associate further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification:     
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator/Associate along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.   
   
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated annual financial statements of the Holding Company.   
   
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid opening 
are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Collaborator/Associate is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of the three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financia l parameters. Further, a 
certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bid documents stating 
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening 
and the Certificate fr om the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available.    
   
2.3.0   Financial Criteria for the Consortium (For Route 1.3.0)   
2.3.1   The average annual turnover of the consortium collectively, in the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 34 Crore (Indian Rupees Thirty 
Four Crore only) or in equivalent foreign currency.   
 Further, average annual turnover of the lead partner of the consortium in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall not be less than 51% of the total annual 
turnover requirement  specified for consortium as above. Further, other Consortium Partner should 
(Page 4  of  5)
   
BALANCE WORKS OF BARAUNI WAGON TIPPLERS & ASSOCIATED CONVEYING SYSTEM PACKAGE   
individually meet at least 10% of the total annual turnover requirement specified for consortium as 
above.   
  For meeting financial criteria, all the Consortium partners shall consider the same set of three consecutive 
Financial Years.   
2.3.2 Net worth of all consortium partners in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) 
of their paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. However individually, their 
Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid up share capitals.   
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:   
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100   
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up 
share capitals and Y1, Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.   
2.3.3  In case any consortium partner is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium partner can be considered 
acceptable provided the consortium partner furn ishes the following further documents on substantiation 
of its qualification:   
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium partner along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of the consortium 
partner.   
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of the consortium partner.   
 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid opening 
are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, the consortium part ner(s) is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, 
a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters 
is not available.   
   
NOTES:    
i) Net worth means the sum of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited 
out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreci ation provision and amalgamation. Further 
any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted 
or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.    
   
ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.    
   
iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act 2013.    
   
iv) For annual turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to the 
date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used.   
   
(Page 5  of  5)