  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 1 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
NTPC RENEWABLE ENERGY LIMITED 
(A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY AT ISTS SUBSTATION 
ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH (TRANCHE-II) 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
Date: 09.07.2026 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code: NTPCREL-2026-TN000005 
Bidding Document No: NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
1.0 NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NREL) , invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single 
Stage Two Envelope (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) basis 
for “Development of Wind Energy Project with 540MW Capacity at ISTS substation 
Anantapur-III in Andhra Pradesh (Tranche-II)”. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The brief scope of work consists of: 
1. Detailed design, engineering, micro-siting, manufacturing, supply, erection, testing, 
installation & commissioning, and proving the guaranteed performance parameters for 
complete wind farm including land, ALMM (Wind) listed wind turbine generators (WTGs) 
within the offered wind farm, Unit substation, 33kV internal evacuation lines from unit 
substation, pooling substation, central monitoring and control station (CMCS), wind 
monitoring mast(s), external EHV transmission line till ISTS substation etc. 
2. Acquisition of the required land for the offered wind farm project, all roads, storage area 
and sheds, pooling sub-station etc. as per prevailing govt. rules and transfer of title/ lease 
deed to the Employer including infra-structure development and Right of Way (ROW) 
complete along with all required approvals. 
3. All associated civil works like WTG foundations, USS foundations, control cabins for 
housing control panel near tower base (if required), internal roads, office cum control room 
building, pooling substation, storage sheds, permanent water supply arrangements, 
approach roads etc.  
4. All associated electrical works required for grid interfacing (i.e. internal HT overhead lines, 
system controls and metering station, EHV Sub-stations with necessary switch gear etc. 
complete). 
 
5. Inland Transportation and Insurance for Delivery at site on FOR basis. 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 2 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
 
6. Geotechnical Investigation and Civil Works for all foundations and works. 
7. Grid compliance study for the complete wind project, SCADA/SAS system, Control Panels, 
Power Plant Controller, system software(s), supply and installation of SVG and harmonic 
filter as per requirement to meet the compliance and successful commissioning of wind 
project. 
8. Offered Wind Project shall be interconnected to Anantapur ISTS Sub-Station-III, Andhra 
Pradesh. ISTS connectivity shall be arranged by the Employer. 
9. The bidders shall offer ALMM(Wind) listed WTG machine having machine capacity of 
3.0MW or higher.   
10. All agreements, statutory approvals and clearances such as govt. order, power evacuation, 
environmental, central/ state nodal renewable energy agency, electrical, forest, MOD etc. 
as required/ applicable. 
11. 10 years Comprehensive operation & maintenance of the complete Wind Energy Project 
including WTG, Unit Substation, pooling substation, internal and external transmission 
system, roads and approaches, along with supply of all spare parts, consumables, repairs/ 
replacement of any defective equipment, payment of applicable charges levied by the 
respective state govt./ local bodies etc. 
12. Supply of Mandatory Spares.  
 
The detailed scope of work is as defined in bidding document No.: NRE-CS-5930-003-9. 
3.0 NREL intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources/ Borrowings. 
 
4.0 Detailed specification, Scope of work and Terms & Conditions are given in the bidding documents, 
which are available for examination and downloading at e-tender portal (as specified in this notice) 
and as per the following schedule: 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code (TSC) NTPCREL-2026-TN000005 
IFB Date 09.07.2026 
Period of Downloading of Bidding Documents From 09.07.2026 to 20.07.2026 
(till 17:00 HRS) 
Pre-Bid Conference and Last Date for receipt of 
queries from prospective Bidders  21.07.2026 
Last Date and Time for receipt of bids comprising 
both Techno-Commercial Bid and Price Bid 04.08.2026 15:00:00 (IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-Commercial 
Bid  04.08.2026 15:30:00 (IST) 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Not Applicable / NIL 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference as specified above. 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 3 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for the amount as per below table in the form 
as stipulated in the Bidding Documents: 
 
Total Quoted Capacity Bid Security Amount (INR) 
One Project of 270MW 20,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Twenty Crore only) 
Two Projects of 270MW each 
(Total 540MW) 
50,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Fifty Crore only) 
 
In case the Bidder has submitted Bid Security less than the required Bid Security for quoted 
capacity (in MW) / no(s). of Blocks as per above table, Bidder’s eligibility for Capacity (in MW) / 
no(s). of Block(s) shall be reduced to maximum Capacity (in MW) / Nos. of Block(s) as per the 
value of submitted Bid Security as per above table. In case if bidder has submitted offer for two 
Projects of 270MW each but submitted Bid security for single Project only i.e. of INR 
20,00,00,000.00 then only one offer shall be considered whose evaluated cost in INR per MU is 
lower. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER SHALL SUBMIT THE PROOF OF 
E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE. 
 
6.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
  
 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0: 
 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
 
1.1 The Bidder should have designed/ got designed, supplied, erected/ supervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning of grid connected Wind Power Plant(s) of cumulative 
installed capacity of 40 MW or higher, out of which at least one plant should have been of 10 MW 
or higher capacity at a single location with associated civil & electrical works. The reference plant 
of 10 MW or higher capacity must have been in successful operation for at least Six (06) Months 
prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
 
1.2 (a) The Bidder should be a manufacturer of approved Wind Turbine Generator (WTG) model 
of minimum rating 3000kW in latest ALMM (Wind) list (Approved List of Models and Manufactures 
issued by MNRE) prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening 
 
AND 
 
(b) The Bidder should associate with an entity who has arranged land for grid connected Wind/ 
Solar Power Plant(s) of cumulative installed capacity of 40 MW or higher, out of which at least one 
plant should have been of 10 MW or higher capacity at a single location. 
 
In such a case wherein, the Bidder associates as above, the Bidder shall furnish undertaking(s) 
jointly executed by the bidder and its Associate, whereby they shall be jointly and severally liable 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 4 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
for successful performance of the complete wind project, with validity for a period of Twelve (12) 
years or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract whichever is later as per format 
enclosed in the bidding documents. The deed(s) of Joint Undertaking(s) shall be submitted along 
with the techno-commercial bid failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be 
rejected. 
 
OR 
 
1.3 (a) The Bidder should have executed/ got executed works of arrangement of land and power 
evacuation system including transmission lines and pooling sub-station for grid connected Wind/ 
Solar Power Plant(s) of cumulative capacity of 40 MW or higher, out of which at least one plant 
should have been of 10 MW or higher capacity at a single location.  The reference plant of 10 MW 
or higher capacity must have been in successful operation for at least Six (06) Months prior to the 
date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
AND 
  
(b) The Bidder should associate with a WTG manufacturing entity of approved Wind Turbine 
Generator (WTG) model of minimum rating 3000kW in latest ALMM (Wind) list (Approved List of 
Models and Manufactures issued by MNRE) prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
In such a case wherein, the Bidder associates as above, the Bidder shall furnish undertaking(s) 
jointly executed by the Bidder and its Associate, whereby they shall be jointly and severally liable  
for successful performance of the complete wind project, with validity for a period of Twelve (12) 
years or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract whichever is later as per format 
enclosed in the bidding documents. The Deed(s) of Joint Undertaking(s) shall be submitted along 
with the techno-commercial bid failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be 
rejected. 
 
OR 
 
1.4 The Bidder should be a developer of grid connected Wind Power Plant(s) of cumulative 
installed capacity of 40 MW or higher, out of which at least one plant should have been of 10 MW 
or higher capacity at a single location. The reference plant of 10 MW or higher capacity must have 
been in successful operation for at least Six (06) Months prior to the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening.  
        
OR 
 
1.5 The Bidder should be an Indian company registered in India and should be Subsidiary 
company/ Holding Company/ Group company of an entity meeting the requirement(s) of Clause 
1.1 or 1.4 above. In such a case, the Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking jointly executed by the 
entity qualified as per Clause 1.1 or 1.4 and the Bidder along with its bid for complete performance 
of the contract jointly and severally as per format enclosed in the bid document failing which the 
Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0:  
a) For Clause 1.1, 1.3(a) and 1.4,  the reference plant of 10 MW or above capacity should be 
at a single location developed by the Bidder for itself or any other client. For the Associate in 
Clause 1.2(b), the reference plant of 10 MW or above capacity should be at a single location 
developed by the Associate for itself or any other client.  

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 5 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
b) For Clause 1.1, 1.2(b), 1.3(a) and 1.4, single location means that capacity of reference plant 
of 10 MW or higher is connected to a single Pooling Sub-station. 
c) For Clause 1.1, 1.2(b), 1.3(a) and 1.4, cumulative installed capacity of 40 MW or higher shall 
be achieved across a maximum of 5 (Five) Plants. 
d) For Clause 1.2(b) & 1.3(a), the type of land arranged by the Associate/ Bidder can be either 
leasehold or freehold type.  
e) For Clause 1.2 (b) & 1.3(a), the Bidder shall submit documentary evidence for arrangement 
of land. 
f) For Clause 1.2 (b) , an entity who has arranged land can participate as an Associate with 
one or more Bidders qualifying under Clause 1.2 (a) . The entity can also participate as a 
Bidder under Clause 1.3, provided that, in each such participation, the specified qualifying 
requirements are independently met by the entity. 
g) A WTG manufacturing entity can participate in the bidding process through only one Route 
of the Qualifying Requirements i.e. either as a Bidder under Clause 1.1 / 1.2 / 1.4 / 1.5 or as 
an Associate under Clause 1.3(b) . If the WTG manufacturing entity participates through 
more than one Route, whether separately or in association, all such bids shall be rejected. 
Further, the WTG manufacturing entity can associate with only one Bidder who meets the 
requirements of Clause 1.3(a). In case the WTG manufacturing entity associates with more 
than one Bidder under Clause 1.3 (a) above then all such bids shall be rejected. 
h) For Clause 1.1 & 1.3(a) , the Bidder shall submit certificate of successful completion and 
operation from the Owner. 
i) For Clause 1.3(a), in case the Bidder is qualifying based on experience of Solar Power 
Plant(s), the Bidder should submit certification from certifying agency for micro-siting of wind 
turbines as considered in AEP report along with the techno-commercial bid as per format 
provided in the bidding documents. 
j) For Clause 1.4, the Bidder shall submit certificate of successful commissioning of the project 
issued from Govt. Renewable Nodal Agency/ Govt. Enterprise/ Discom/ Electricity Board etc. 
k) For Clause 1.4, the Bidder shall submit evidence of successful operation from intermediary 
procurer/ procurer/ Discom/ Electricity Board etc. 
l) Direct / Indirect Order  
The Bidder shall also be considered qualified, in case the award for executing the reference 
work has been received by the Bidder either directly from the owner of the plant or any other 
intermediary organization. However, a certificate from owner of such plant or any other 
intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the Bidder along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid in the support of Bidder’s claim of meeting the qualification 
requirement as per Clause 1.1, 1.2(b), 1.3(a) above. 
m) For Clause 1.4, developer means an entity who has either executed or got executed the 
work/ project as its owner. 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA FOR THE BIDDER: 
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder should not be less than the financial figure as 
mentioned below during the preceding Three (3)  financial years as on the date of techno-
commercial bid opening:  

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 6 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
Total Quoted Capacity Minimum Financial Figure of Bidder 
Annual Turnover Requirement for Capacity 
from 50 MW to 300 MW 
INR 396.68 Crore (INR Three Hundred 
Ninety Six Crore Sixty Eight Lakh Only) 
Annual Turnover Requirement for Capacity 
more than 300 MW 
INR 132.23 Lakh/MW x Quoted Capacity in 
MW (INR One Hundred Thirty Two Lakh 
Twenty Three Thousand per MW x Quoted 
Capacity in MW) 
 
Bidder can meet the above specified average annual turnover on its own or by either way of the 
following: 
a) A Bidder can meet the turnover criteria through its Holding Company, provided that the Net 
Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at 
least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an 
event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its techno-commercial Bid, a Letter 
of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of 
award. 
OR 
b) A Bidder who is a WTG manufacturer and has acquired or taken over a business 
undertaking or division of another entity (hereinafter referred to as the Seller Entity) through 
a slump sale / demerger transaction or the Bidder is a resulting company after demerger, 
the financial turnover criteria attributable to such transferred business during the preceding 
Three (3) financial years shall be considered for evaluating the average annual turnover of 
the Bidder, subject to fulfilment of the following conditions: 
(i) The transferred business should have been acquired on a going-concern basis, 
signifying continuity of operations, including transfer of assets, contracts, technical and 
operational capabilities; 
(ii) Where the business transfer has occurred within the preceding Three (3) financial 
years, the turnover attributable to the transferred business for the pre-transfer period 
with the Seller Entity / Demerged Entity and the post-transfer period with the Bidder 
shall be aggregated, so as to constitute turnover for preceding continuous period of 
Three (3) financial years, provided there is no duplication of any period; 
(iii) The Bidder shall submit a certificate from the Statutory Auditor of the Seller Entity / 
Demerged Entity, certifying the year-wise and, where applicable, period-wise turnover 
attributable solely to the transferred business undertaking / division; 
(iv) The Bidder shall submit documentary evidence of the business transfer transaction, 
such as Business Transfer Agreement / Slump Sale Agreement / Scheme of Demerger 
and relevant statutory or regulatory approvals, wherever applicable. 
Employer reserves the right to seek additional documents or clarifications and to reject the 
claim of transferred business turnover if the relevance, continuity, attribution or 
completeness of the turnover for the required Three (3) year period is not satisfactorily 
established. 
 
2.2 The Bidder should have Positive Net Worth as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
or as on the last day of the preceding financial quarter. In case a Bidder does not satisfy the positive 
net worth criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the 
stipulated net worth requirement as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company 
as on the last day of the preceding financial year is positive. 
In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its techno-commercial Bid, a 
Letter of Und ertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 7 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents on substantiation of its 
qualification: 
a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
b) Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year or last quarter (as applicable) as on date 
of techno-commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited 
result of Three (03)  consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of 
the company are under audit as on techno-commercial bid opening date and the Certificate from 
a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
3.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA FOR THE ASSOCIATE: 
 
3.1 (a) For the Bidder seeking qualification through Clause 1.2, the average annual turnover 
of its Associate should not be less than the financial figure as mentioned below during the 
preceding Three (03) financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening: 
Total Quoted Capacity Minimum Financial Figure of Associate 
Annual Turnover Requirement for Capacity 
from 50 MW to 300 MW 
INR 39.67 Crore (INR Thirty Nine Crore 
Sixty Seven Lakh Only) 
Annual Turnover Requirement for Capacity 
more than 300 MW 
INR 13.22 Lakh/MW x Quoted Capacity in 
MW (INR Thirteen Lakh Twenty Two 
Thousand per MW x Quoted Capacity in 
MW) 
 
Further for 3.1 (a), in case the Associate does not satisfy the financial criteria stipulated above on 
its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements 
above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the Associate would be required to furnish along with the Bidder’s Techno-
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by Board 
Resolution of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support to the Associate to honour the terms and 
conditions of the Deed of Joint Undertaking(s) in case of award of the contract to the Bidder with 
whom the Associate is associated. 
 
(b) For the Bidder seeking qualification through Clause 1.3, the average annual turnover of its 
Associate should not be less than the financial figure as mentioned below during the preceding 
Three (03) financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening: 
Total Quoted Capacity Minimum Financial Figure of Associate 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 8 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
Annual Turnover Requirement 
for Capacity from 50 MW to 300 
MW 
INR 337.18 Crore  
(INR Three Hundred Thirty Seven Crore Eighteen Lakh 
Only) 
Annual Turnover Requirement 
for Capacity more than 300 MW 
INR 112.40 Lakh/MW x Quoted Capacity in MW  
(INR One Hundred Twelve Lakh Forty Thousand per MW 
x Quoted Capacity in MW) 
 
 
Further for 3.1 (b), an Associate can meet the above specified average annual turnover on its own 
or by either way of the following: 
(a) An Associate can meet the turnover criteria through its Holding Company, provided that 
the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such 
an event, the Associate would be required to furnish along with the Bidder’s Techno-
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by Board 
Resolution of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the bidding 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support to the Associate to 
honour the terms and conditions of the Deed of Joint Undertaking(s) in case of award of 
the contract to the Bidder with whom the Associate is associated. 
OR 
(b) In case an Associate (as WTG manufacturer) has acquired or taken over a business 
undertaking or division of another entity (hereinafter referred to as the Seller Entity) through 
a slump sale / demerger transaction or the Associate is a resulting company after 
demerger, the financial turnover criteria attributable to such transferred business during the 
preceding Three (3) financial years shall be considered for evaluating the average annual 
turnover of the Associate, subject to fulfilment of the following conditions: 
(i) The transferred business should have been acquired on a going-concern basis, 
signifying continuity of operations, including transfer of assets, contracts, technical and 
operational capabilities; 
(ii) Where the business transfer has occurred within the preceding Three (3) financial 
years, the turnover attributable to the transferred business for the pre-transfer period 
with the Seller Entity / Demerged Entity  and the post-transfer period with the 
Associate shall be aggregated, so as to constitute turnover for preceding continuous 
period of Three (3) financial years, provided there is no duplication of any period; 
(iii) The Bidder / Associate shall submit a certificate from the Statutory Auditor of the Seller 
Entity / Demerged Entity, certifying the year-wise and, where applicable, period-wise 
turnover attributable solely to the transferred business undertaking / division; 
(iv) The Bidder / Associate shall submit documentary evidence of the business transfer 
transaction, such as Business Transfer Agreement / Slump Sale Agreement / Scheme 
of Demerger and relevant statutory or regulatory approvals, wherever applicable. 
Employer reserves the right to seek additional documents or clarifications and to reject the 
claim of transferred business turnover if the relevance, continuity, attribution or 
completeness of the turnover for the required Three (3) year period is not satisfactorily 
established. 
 
 
3.2 The Associate should have Positive Net Worth as on the last day of the preceding financial 
year or as on the last day of the preceding financial quarter. In case the Associate does not satisfy 
the positive net worth criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be required 
to meet the stipulated net worth requirement as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is positive. 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 9 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
In such an event, the Associate would be required to furnish along with the Bidder’s Techno-
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding 
Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in 
case of award. 
 
3.3 In case the Associate is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Associate can be considered 
acceptable provided the Associate further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of 
its qualification: 
i) Copies of unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Associate along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of Associate. 
ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of Associate. 
In case where audited results for the last financial year or last quarter (as applicable) as on date 
of techno-commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case the Associate is not able to submit 
the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited result of Three (03) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of 
the company are under audit as on techno-commercial bid opening date and the Certificate from 
a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 2.0 and 3.0: 
i. Net Worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not 
include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus. 
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
iv. Definition of Slump-sale and Demerger Transaction shall be as per Indian Income Tax Act. 
v. For the value of annual turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rates as on 
Seven (7) days prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall be used. 
vi. For the companies formed in the current or immediate preceding financial year and whose 
financial results as on the last date of preceding financial year are not available, the net worth 
certified by the Chartered Accountant as on the day not earlier than 7 days prior to the initially 
notified last date of techno-commercial bid submission, shall be considered. 
vii. ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a 
position to: 
(a) exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise; or 
(b) appoint more than fifty percent of members of Board of Directors in the other enterprise. 
 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 10 of 11 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
The meaning of Holding/ Subsidiary/ Group Company mentioned above shall be applicable for 
Clause 1.5 also. 
 
  
7.0 NTPC Renewable Energy Limited reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw 
the Invitation for Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
8.0 
(a) 
Interested parties are required to get registered with M/s ISN Electronic Tender Services (ETS) 
website https://www.bharat-electronictender.com (if not already registered).  
 
(b) The bidder shall be mandatorily to submit a copy of “Non- Disclosure Agreement” duly 
signed by the authorized signatory as per the format enclosed along with the IFB to enable 
the Employer to authorize the Bidder for procurement of the Bidding Documents. 
 
In case of any non-compliance in submission of Non- Disclosure Agreement, authorization 
shall not be provided to the bidders for procurement of bidding documents. 
  
(c) Interested bidders are required to upload duly signed NDA, on ETS portal, prior to closing 
of Bidding documents sale period to enable the employer for authorizing the bidder to 
download the bidding documents online from the ETS portal. 
  
9.1 Issuance of Bid Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered to be 
qualified. The bids shall be submitted online. Bidder shall furnish hard copy of Bid Security and 
other documents as detailed in Bidding Documents before the st ipulated bid submission closing 
date and time at the address given below. 
 
9.2 After registration with ETS and submission of duly signed NDA as above, a complete set of Bidding 
Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from ETS Portal https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com with Tender Search Code NTPCREL-2026-TN000005.  
 
Interested bidders are required to ensure that they have downloaded the official copy of 
bidding documents against Tender Search code- NTPCREL-2026-TN000005 from website of 
ETS before closure of Bid Sale Period.  
 
For technical assistance, interested parties may call ETS Helpdesk at 0124-4229071, 0124-
4229072. 
 
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
11.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 

  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540MW CAPACITY 
AT ISTS SUBSTATION ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 11 of 11 
 
 
 
                                         INVITATION FOR BIDS                                   
  
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
12.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
  
Contracts Services 
NTPC Renewable Energy Limited  
4th Floor, Renewables Building, NETRA Complex 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida 
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
Contact Persons 
Name & Designation Telephone No Mobile No E-Mail ID 
Vishal Jain 
AGM (CS) 
+91-120-
2356525 9413354939 vishaljain@ntpc.co.in 
Manish Kumar 
AGM (CS) 
+91-120-
2356610 9425219751 manishkumar01@ntpc.co.in 
Ankush Gathibandhe 
DGM (CS)  7588183933  agathibandhe@ntpc.co.in 
 
Corporate Identification Number: U40107DL2020GOI371032, Website: www.ntpcrel.in 

IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9/ NDA
NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT 
THIS NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) made on this …….. day of ………...... 
20…..... Between ……………………………………………………………………………………….., 
a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, and having its Registered Office at 
…………………………………………………………………………………and Corporate Office at 
……………………………………………………………………………………………….. hereinafter 
referred to as “Company” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof mean and include its successors and permitted assigns), of the One Part; 
And NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NTPC REL) , a company incorporated under the 
Companies Act, 2013, having its Registered Office at Core 7, Scope Complex, Institute Area, 
Lodhi Road, Central Delhi-110003 on shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof 
include its successors and permitted assigns) of the Other Part. 
The Company and NREL shall collectively be referred to as the “Parties” and individually as a 
“Party”. 
WHEREAS: 
A. NREL envisages to invite tender for the package DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY
PROJECT WITH 540 MW CAPACITY AT ISTS SUB-STATION ANANTAPUR-III IN
ANDHRA PRADESH (TRANCHE-II) vide IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 through which
it intends to develop Wind Energy Projects won under Competitive Bidding Process
and/or under Bilateral Arrangements through a competitive bidding process
(“Evaluation”).
B. As part of Evaluation, the bidder shall be issued complete set of bidding documents.
Further, the  bidder is also expected to examine and evaluate all instructions, forms, terms,
conditions, specifications and other information as furnished as part of the bidding
documents for the purpose of submission of techno-commercial bids and/or evaluation of
its bids and/or award of the contract and/or performance of the contract and/or operation
of the package.
C. It is anticipated by the Parties that, in the course of Evaluation, either Party may disclose
to the other Party certain Confidential Information (defined hereinafter) and the part y
d
isclosing such information shall be the Disclosing Party and that, the party receiving such
information shall be the Receiving Party as the case may be.
D. It is also anticipated by the Parties that, after the award of the contract and/or during the
performance of the contract and/or during the operation of the package, a Party
(“Disclosing Party”) may disclose to the other Party (“Receiving Party”) certain Confidential
Information (defined hereinafter).
E. Accordingly, the Parties are desirous of entering into this Non-Disclosure Agreement
which sets out their mutual confidentiality obligations in respect of the Confidential
Information disclosed to each other in the course of their discussions on the Evaluation.
F. Each Party undertakes to comply with the terms and conditions as contained hereinafter
which shall govern the exchange and handling of the non-disclosure and use of the
Confidential Information.

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9/ NDA 
NOW THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES CONTAINED 
HEREIN, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS: 
1. Definitions and Interpretations: 
1.1  “Affiliates” means, with respect to any Person, a Person that directly or indirectly through 
one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, 
the Person specified. For the purposes of this definition, “control” (including, with 
correlative meanings, the terms “controlled by” and “under common control with”) shall 
mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power, alone or together with others, 
to direct or cause the direction of the Management and policies of such Person, whether 
through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. 
1.2  “Confidential Information” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 2.1. 
1.3  “Disclosing Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.4  “Government” or “Governmental Instrumentality” shall mean any ministry, department, 
political subdivision, instrumentality, agency, provincial or municipal council, authority, 
body or entity, corporation or commission under the control of the GOI and any other 
local or other authority, agency or statutory body exercising powers conferred by Laws; 
1.5  “Laws” means all laws, statutes, enactments, acts of legislature or parliament, 
ordinances, rules, bye-laws, regulations, notifications, policies, guidelines, directions, 
directives, decision, decrees and orders of any Governmental Instrumentality having the 
force of law. 
1.6  “Materials” means the part of any tangible media upon or within which any part of the 
Confidential Information is recorded or reproduced in any form and shall include any 
storage device which forms a part of computer hardware. 
1.7  “Person” includes any natural person, firm, company, Governmental Authority, joint 
venture, association, partnership or other entity (whether or not having separate legal 
personality). 
1.8  “Receiving Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.9  “Representatives” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 3 (a). 
2.  Confidential Information 
2.1  “Confidential Information” means information which is legally owned and possessed by 
the Disclosing Party and which ought to be considered as confidential from its nature or 
from the circumstances surrounding its disclosure, in whatever form or media, imparted 
or disclosed by the Disclosing Party to the Receiving Party, in writing or by any other 
medium upon the execution of this Agreement or during the course of the discussions 
on the Evaluation. Confidential Information includes information: 
a) relating to the Disclosing Party’s business, corporate policies, strategies, operations, 
finances, employees, plans or opportunities and commercial information including 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9/ NDA 
profitability information and charts and the identity of, or particulars about, the Disclosing 
Party, marked identified as confidential, restricted, secret or proprietary at the time of 
disclosure during the discussions on the Evaluation; 
b)  the fact that the discussions referred to herein are taking place, and all notes, extracts, 
compilations or Materials or media, which are copies of or derivative works of the 
Confidential Information. 
 But does not include any information which: 
a)  is now, or hereafter, through no willful act or failure by the Receiving Party, becomes, 
generally known or available to the public; 
b)  is furnished to the Receiving Party on a non-confidential basis by a third party whom 
the Receiving Party reasonably believes that the Disclosing party had not obtained it 
under an obligation of confidentiality.; 
c)  is an information which the Receiving Party can evidence as having been independently 
developed by it without violating this Agreement; or 
d)  is legally known to the Receiving Party prior to the time of disclosure by the Disclosing 
Party. 
2.2 Obligation of Confidentiality 
 The Receiving Party shall keep the Confidential Information strictly confidential and shall 
use it for the purposes of Evaluation and shall not disclose or divulge or provide any 
Confidential Information to a third party, in manner whatsoever, without the prior written 
consent of the Company. In case the Receiving Party is required to disclose any 
Confidential Information in terms of any Law, the Receiving Party shall endeavor to give 
the Disclosing Party reasonable notice as may be legally possible prior to such disclosure 
to obtain any applicable protective order or equivalent and provide such assistance, as may 
be required by the Disclosing Party for the purposes of safeguarding such Confidential 
Information and further comply with the same. 
3. Undertakings and Covenants of the Parties: 
Each Party hereby agrees, undertakes, confirms and covenants with the other that: 
a)  it shall keep strictly confidential and not use, reveal, provide or transfer to any Person, 
directly or indirectly, the Confidential Information or any part thereof, except to such of 
its employees, directors, co-investors, debt financing sources, attorneys, accountants, 
consultants or representatives (collectively, “Representatives”) strictly on a “need-to- 
know” basis for the purpose of Evaluation, and the Receiving Party shall at all times 
remain fully responsible for such Representatives’ compliance under this Agreement; 
b)  it shall not keep, reproduce, use for any unauthorized purpose or part with possession 
of any documents or Material relating to the Confidential Information, save as required 
for the purposes of Evaluation, except with the prior written consent of the Disclosing 
Party; 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9/ NDA 
c)  it shall apply, adopt and enforce appropriate procedures and policies with regard to and 
in respect of transmission, publication and disclosure of the Confidential Information, in 
order to preserve the confidentiality or propriety of such information; 
d)  it shall exercise the same care in preventing unauthorised disclosure or use of the 
Confidential Information as it would take to protect and safeguard the confidentiality of 
its own information of a similar nature; 
e)  it shall maintain proper records and enforce strict accountability of all Confidential 
Information received from the Disclosing Party and whenever required to transmit 
publish or disclose or otherwise provide such Confidential Information subject to, and as 
may be permitted under this Agreement, it shall do so with due diligence and shall 
convey to the recipient of such information that the same is subject to non disclosure 
obligations under this Agreement, so as to put the recipient on notice that the recipient 
shall be held accountable in respect of disclosure of such Confidential Information and 
that the recipient is expected to maintain confidentiality as if the recipient was a party to 
this Agreement and obtain such assurances, agreement and undertaking from the 
recipient that it shall return such information upon request by the Disclosing Party; 
f)  it shall ensure that the Representatives are made aware of the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement including without limitation the confidentiality obligations of the Receiving 
Party under this Agreement and abide by it at all times. 
g)  Any materials or documents that have been furnished by the Disclosing Party to the 
Receiving Party in connection with the relationship will be promptly returned by the 
Receiving Party, accompanied by all copies of such documentation or certification of 
destruction, within TEN days after the relationship has terminated or on the written 
request of the Company. 
4. Term: 
 Unless otherwise agreed to, expressly in writing by the Parties, the obligations hereunder 
shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with the terms hereof and shall 
terminate on the expiry of earlier of (i) the Parties entering into legally binding documentation 
in relation to or pursuant to the Evaluation; and (ii) twelve months from the date of this 
Undertaking; 
5. Rights and Remedies of the Disclosing Party: 
5.1 On the expiry of the term of this Agreement or upon its termination for any reason 
whatsoever or immediately upon the Disclosing Party’s request at any time during the term 
hereof, the Receiving Party shall forthwith return to the Disclosing Party all the Material 
which are capable of returning to the Disclosing Party, then in the possession of the 
Receiving Party which contain any such Confidential Information, and shall forth with take 
reasonable steps to expunge all Confidential Information (and any copy that may have been 
made) from any computer, word processor or other device containing the Confidential 
Information. 
5.2 In the event of breach of any of the conditions stipulated by this Agreement, the Disclosing 
Party shall be at liberty to take necessary steps to prevent the Receiving Party from 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9/ NDA 
disclosing or using such Confidential Information except as authorized herein, including 
without limitation, terminate this Agreement by serving 30 (thirty) days prior notice, in 
writing. 
5.3 The Receiving Party acknowledges and undertakes that unauthorised disclosure or use of 
the Confidential Information by it shall cause irreparable damage to the Disclosing Party in 
such a way that the Disclosing Party cannot be adequately compensated in damages in an 
action at law. Accordingly, if any dispute arises concerning the disclosure or use of any 
Confidential Information by the Receiving Party, the Disclosing Party may seek injunctive 
relief restraining the un-authorised disclosure or use of the Confidential Information by the 
Receiving Party or specific performance of this Agreement. The above remedy will be in 
addition to any other legal or equitable remedy otherwise available to the Disclosing Party. 
6. Compliance with Law 
 Each Party acknowledges that some or all of the Confidential Information provided herein (in 
case Disclosing Party is a listed company) is or may be price-sensitive information and that 
the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by Law and each Party 
undertakes not to use, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information in contravention of 
any Law. On acquiring any Confidential Information, each Party shall comply with all Laws, 
and shall indemnify and hold the other Party harmless against any consequences arising 
from any violation by such Party or its Representatives of such Laws. 
7. Entire Agreement: 
 The terms and conditions herein constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the 
Parties on the subject matter of this Agreement and shall cancel and supersede all 
communications, negotiations, arrangements and agreements, either oral or written, 
between the Parties hereto, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 
8. Amendments: 
 No amendment to or modification of this Agreement shall be valid or enforceable unless 
reduced to writing and executed by the Parties hereto. 
9. Waiver: 
 The failure to exercise or delay in exercising a right or remedy under this Agreement shall 
not constitute a waiver of the right or remedy or a waiver of any other rights or remedies and 
no single or partial exercise of any right or remedy under this Agreement shall prevent any 
further exercise of the right or remedy or the exercise of any other right or remedy.  
10. Notice 
10.1 Any notice, demand or other communication required or permitted to be given to either 
Party by, or made pursuant to, this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be personally 
delivered to such Party, sent by prepaid courier; or sent by facsimile transmission, 
charges prepaid, confirmed by prepaid courier to the following address: 
 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9/ NDA 
To:   ……………………………………………………………. (Name of Company) 
Attn:   …………………………………………………………….. 
Address:  …………………………………………………………….. 
Phone:  …………………………………………………………… 
 
To: NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NTPC REL) 
Employers Address: (Address as mentioned in Section – III (BID DATA SHEET) of the Bidding 
Documents) 
10.2 Any Party may from time to time change its address upon serving at least 5 (five) 
business days prior written notice to the other Party given in accordance with the 
provisions hereof. 
10.3 Any notice, demand or other communication delivered in accordance with Article (10.1) 
or (10.2) above if delivered during the normal business hours of the intended recipient, 
shall be deemed to have been received on the day of its delivery, otherwise on the next 
business day, and if sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been received on the 
date of its transmission by facsimile provided that in the case of a facsimile the recipient’s 
facsimile number appears on the senders transmission report (confirmation copy to be 
sent by prepaid courier). 
11.0 Severability: 
 Any provision in this Agreement which is held to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or 
in part, under any applicable enactment or rule of law, shall be ineffective to the extent 
of such illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions and 
any such illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed to be restated to reflect as 
nearly as possible the original intentions of the Parties in accordance with the applicable 
law. 
12.0 Governing Law: 
 This Agreement shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the 
laws of India. 
13.  Dispute Resolution: 
 Courts at  Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the  disputes pertaining to this 
Agreement. 
 
 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5930-003-9/ NDA 
14.  Counterparts: 
 This Agreement may be executed in 2 (two) counterparts, each of which when executed 
and delivered is an original and shall be retained by each Party and taken together shall 
constitute and evidence the same Agreement between the Parties. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed these presents, in duplicate, the day 
and year first herein above mentioned. 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by ………………………………………………………… (Name of Company) 
in the presence of 
…………………………………………………………. 
 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by NREL 
in the presence of 
………………………………………………………… 
Development of Wind Energy Project with 540 MW Capacity at ISTS Sub-
Station Anantapur-III in Andhra Pradesh (Tranche-II) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
ABRIDGED INVITATION FOR 
BIDS Page 1 of 2 
 
 
ABRIDGED - INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
NTPC RENEWABLE ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
ABRIDGED - INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
FOR 
 
DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH 540 MW CAPACITY AT ISTS SUB-STATION 
ANANTAPUR-III IN ANDHRA PRADESH (TRANCHE-II)  
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: NRE-CS-5930-003-9                                                                                           Date: 12.02.2026 
1.0 NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NTPC REL), invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single 
Stage Two Envelope (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) basis 
for “Development of Wind Energy Project with 540 MW Capacity at ISTS Sub-Station 
Anantapur-III in Andhra Pradesh (Tranche-II)”. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The brief scope of work consists of: 
1. Detailed design, engineering, micro-siting, manufacturing, supply, erection, testing, 
installation & commissioning, and proving the guaranteed performance parameters for 
complete wind farm including land, ALMM (Wind) listed wind turbine generators (WTGs) 
within the offered wind farm, Unit substation, 33kV internal evacuation lines from unit 
substation, pooling substation, central monitoring and control station (CMCS), wind 
monitoring mast(s), external EHV transmission line till ISTS substation etc. 
2. Acquisition of the required land for the offered wind farm project, all roads, storage area 
and sheds, pooling sub-station etc. as per prevailing govt. rules and transfer of title/ lease 
deed to the Employer including infra-structure development and Right of Way (ROW) 
complete along with all required approvals. 
3. All associated civil works like WTG foundations, USS foundations, control cabins for 
housing control panel near tower base (if required), internal roads, office cum control room 
building, pooling substation, storage sheds, permanent water supply arrangements, 
approach roads etc.  
4. All associated electrical works required for grid interfacing (i.e. internal HT overhead lines, 
system controls and metering station, EHV Sub-stations with necessary switch gear etc. 
complete). 
 
5. Inland Transportation and Insurance for Delivery at site on FOR basis. 
 
6. Geotechnical Investigation and Civil Works for all foundations and works. 
7. Grid compliance study for the complete wind project, SCADA/SAS system, Control Panels, 
Power Plant Controller, system software(s), supply and installation of SVG and harmonic 

Development of Wind Energy Project with 540 MW Capacity at ISTS Sub-
Station Anantapur-III in Andhra Pradesh (Tranche-II) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5930-003-9 
ABRIDGED INVITATION FOR 
BIDS Page 2 of 2 
 
 
ABRIDGED - INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
filter as per requirement to meet the compliance and successful commissioning of wind 
project. 
8. Offered Wind Project shall be interconnected to Anantapur ISTS Sub-Station-III, Andhra 
Pradesh. ISTS connectivity shall be arranged by the Employer. 
9. The bidders shall offer ALMM(Wind) listed WTG machine having machine capacity of 
3.0MW or higher.   
10. All agreements, statutory approvals and clearances such as govt. order, power evacuation, 
environmental, central/ state nodal renewable energy agency, electrical, forest, MOD etc. 
as required/ applicable. 
11. 10 years Comprehensive operation & maintenance of the complete Wind Energy Project 
including WTG, Unit Substation, pooling substation, internal and external transmission 
system, roads and approaches, along with supply of all spare parts, consumables, repairs/ 
replacement of any defective equipment, payment of applicable charges levied by the 
respective state govt./ local bodies etc. 
12. Supply of Mandatory Spares.  
 
The detailed scope of work is as defined in bidding document No.: NRE-CS-5930-003-9. 
  
3.0 For the detailed IFB and bidding documents please visit at https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com or www.ntpctender.com  or www.ntpc.co.in from 02.03.2026. 
 
4.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
  
Contracts Services 
NTPC Renewable Energy Limited  
4th Floor, Renewables Building, NETRA Complex 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida 
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
Contact Persons 
Name & Designation Telephone No Mobile No E-Mail ID 
Vishal Jain 
AGM (CS) +91-120-2356525 9413354939 vishaljain@ntpc.co.in 
Manish Kumar 
AGM (CS) +91-120-2356610 9425219751 manishkumar01@ntpc.co.in 
Gurpratap Singh 
Sr. Manager (CS) +91-120-2356553 9416212724 gurpratapsingh@ntpc.co.in  
 
Corporate Identification Number: U40107DL2020GOI371032, Website: www.ntpcrel.co.in 
 
