 
Invitation for e -Tender for Procurement of power from generators/ energy storage 
providers by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited (Nodal Agency)  for upcoming high 
demand period 
Request for Supply (RfS) 
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND 
 
NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as “NVVN”), a wholly 
Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited (Govt of India Enterprises) , has been nominated as a 
Nodal Agency to facilitate peak power procurement of up to 12000 MWh (2000 MW for 6 
hours) per day of electricity from generation/ storage resources during the crunch period April-
June 2026.  
 
NVVN intends to select suitable bidders (the “Bidders”) whose Bid shall be opened on the 
date specified in this RfS and will be eligible for opening of Price Bids, followed by reverse 
auction and bucket filing for issuing letter of Award (LOA) through an open competitive bidding 
process in accordance with the procedure set out herein. 
 
Supply of power from selected generation/ storage resources shall commence at least 30 days 
after the date of issue of Letter of Award (LoA). To give effect to such supply, the selected 
generation/ storage resources shall offer the capacity to the nodal agency (i.e., NVVN), which 
in turn shall offer it on to High Price Day Ahead Market (HP- DAM)/ High Price Term Ahead 
Market (HP-TAM) or other segment of any of the power exchange(s)  or bilateral or through 
TRAS-Shortfall/SCUC.  Since the price will be discovered through competitive bidding and 
capacity mandated through Govt. of India, this power can also be scheduled through TRAS / 
SCUC by NLDC in case of shortfall. 
 
The generation/ storage resources connected to inter-state or intra-state transmission system 
shall provide real time telemetry of the parameters as may be specified by the appropriate 
Load Despatch Center (LDC) (RLDC/SLDC). All necessary infrastructure/arrangements shall 
be made by the bidder at its own expense. Failure to provide real time telemetry may lead to 
disqualification of the bidder. 
 
At inter-state level, in addition to IEGC, the generation/ storage resources shall comply with 
the extant CERC Regulations as applicable from time to time. Intra -state grid connected 
entities participating in the bid shall comply to the IEGC and extant CERC Regulations in 
addition to the SERC Regulations concerned.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (“Procurement of power from Generators/ Energy Storage Providers on competitive 
bidding basis during upcoming high demand period”) 
Tender Specification No. NVVN\C&M\RE-501\2025-26 
 
Indicative timeline 
Sr. Event Details 
1 Publication of RfS 13-02-26 
2 
Last date and time for receiving queries on 
Bidding Document 
20-02-26 
3 Pre-Bid Meeting 20-02-26 
4 Response to queries of potential bidders 
latest by 
21-02-26 
5 Last date and time of submission of 
application and bid (Bid Due Date) 
25-02-26 
6 Opening of Application to the extent of only 
qualification requirement 
26-02-26 
7 Intimation to shortlisted and qualified Bidders 27-02-26 
8 Opening of Price Bids of qualified bidders 28-02-26 
9 eRA and completion of bid evaluation 
process 
28-02-26 
10 Letter of Award (LoA) (to Selected Bidder(s)) 01-03-26 
11 Validity of Bids 
30 days of Bid Due Date or as may be 
mutually extended 
12 
Signing of Agreement (between successful 
bidders and Nodal Agency based on 
allocated capacity) 
Within 07 days from date of LoA 
13 Bids to be submitted through Bharat ETS Portal 
14 Office inviting bids & Place of submission of 
EMD 
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited, 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector -24, Noida -201301 (U.P.) 
 
Tender needs to be submitted through Bharat ETS e -bidding portal . The link for same  is 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com. The tender documents are also available on the website 
of NVVN ltd (www.nvvn.co.in) & of NTPC ltd. ntpctender.ntpc.co.in.  
 
1.0 QUALIFICATION CRITERIA 
 
The Bid shall be opened , subject to the following conditions and verification of bid / 
documents submitted by the bidder: 
 
1.1  The Bidder should be a company, which shall be verified by Certificate of Incorporation 
as per clause 2.8 below. 
1.2 The Bidder should be the owner of the Generator/ Energy Storage Providers from where 
electricity shall be supplied as per clause 2.6 below. 
1.3 If the capacity being offered is tied up in PPA, Bidder will inform the PPA beneficiaries for 
bidding of the power during the upcoming high demand period . The Bidder shall also 
declare that no fixed charges shall be billed to PPA beneficiaries for the total contracted 
quantum for the contract period.  Documents in support of the same shall be submitted 
as per Clause 2.4 below.  
1.4 Bidders with untied capacity during identified high demand period shall submit documents 
in support of the same as per Clause 2.5 below. 
1.5 The bidder shall submit bid for quantum of power during identified high demand period 
not exceeding the sum total of untied capacity and the capacity as informed to the PPA 
beneficiaries.  
1.6 Generators/ Energy Storage Providers  connected to  inter-state or intra-state 
transmission grid are only eligible. Documents in support of the same shall be submitted 
as per Clause 2.6 below. 
1.7 The Generators/ Energy Storage Providers  connected to inter -state or intra -state 
transmission system participating in the bid shall have all necessary infrastructure in 
place and capability for scheduling, metering, accounting, and settlement on a 15-minute 
time-block wise basis as specified in the Indian Electricity Grid Code (IEGC). The grid 
connected entity (inter -state and intra -state) shall provide real time telemetry of the 
parameters as may be specified by the appropriate  Load Despatch Center (LDC) 
(RLDC/SLDC). Documents in support for the same shall be submitted as per Clause 2.7 
below.  
1.8 The generators/ energy storage providers shall provide necessary undertaking that   
sufficient transmission capability is available for injection of power during peak hours. 
 
 
2.0 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR BID SUBMISSION  
2.1  Bid Processing Fee as per Clause 9.1 
2.2 Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security as per Clause 11.0 (Annexure I) 
2.3 Power of Attorney for signing and submission of bid. 
2.4 If the capacity being offered is tied up in PPA, Bidder will inform the PPA beneficiaries 
for bidding of the power during the high demand period and shall not bill fixed charges  
for the contracted power during this contract period under this scheme (Annexure II). 
2.5 Affidavit by bidder that they have untied capacity during identified high demand period 
(Annexure IIA). 
2.6 Affidavit by bidder that they are owner of the Generators/ Energy Storage Providers is 
connected to Interstate or intrastate grid (Annexure III) 
2.7 Declaration regarding enablement of ABT compliant metering and telemetering. 
(Annexure-IV) 
 
2.8  Certificate of Incorporation 
2.9 No Deviation Certificate as per Annexure V. 
 
3.0 Contract Period, Quantum of Energy (MWh) and General conditions of the Scheme: 
  
Period  Total Required 
Quantum per day  
(MWh)  
Minimum Bid Quantity 
(MW) 
Minimum and 
Maximum Duration 
per day (hours) 
1st Apr 26 – 30th Jun 26 12000 25 Min: 02 hours  
Max: 06 hours 
 
The Bidder shall offer power up to the quantum indicated in RfS Document on a firm basis. 
 
General conditions of the Scheme: 
(i) Based on the current demand forecast and resource availability, the Grid India has 
assessed the requirement of operation of Generators/ Energy Storage providers  
selected in the scheme for days 50 days during the period 1st Apr 26 – 30th Jun 26.  
 
(ii) Minimum Guaranteed Off-take (MGO) for generators/ energy storage providers would 
be calculated as per requirement specified by NLDC based on estimated crunch days 
and 50% contracted capacity. MGO for each generators/ energy storage providers 
would be allocated in proportion of contracted capacity to the total bid capacity. MGO 
will be applicable on energy basis only. 
 
(iii) The cumulative generation days as given by NLDC on provisional basis for the crunch 
period shall be 50 days. However, the month- wise generation days for power plant for 
crunch period shall be provided by NLDC based  on requirement and with provision for 
extension/revision during implementation . 
 
(iv) The contracted capacity shall be able to be dispatched on stressed days during non-
solar peak hours (18:00 to 04:00 hrs), for minimum 2 hours and maximum 6 hours-The 
generation profile of identified procured resources would be minimum 50% of 
contracted capacity for the generators/ energy storage providers selected on D-1 days 
for the duration quoted in the bid and may be scheduled upto 100% of contracted 
capacity during Non-solar peak hours as per grid requirement. E.g. for  12000MWh of 
contracted Energy, Minimum Guaranteed Off-take (MGO) per day shall be 6 MU per 
day and shall be 300 MU for the crunch period of 50 days (considering 6 hours per 
day).  If lesser quantity is contracted, the MGO will reduce proportionately. 
 
(v) Nodal   Agency    in   consultation   with   NLDC   shall   communicate   to   the procured   
resources   at   least   fourteen  (14)   days   in   advance   about   the approximate   
number of crunch days based on all India demand forecast  and generation availability 
in the following week of operation on which the generation is likely to be required in the  
grid. Considering weather uncertainty, approximate no. of days would be reviewed 
again in just  previous week and any changes would be intimated to all 
generators/storage resource by Friday of previous week. The procured resources shall 
accordingly arrange the peak power supply during the said week (Monday to Sunday) 
as per the schedule communicated   by   NLDC   on   D -1 day.  In   case   of   energy   
storage providers, arrangement of charging power shall be in the scope of respective   
energy storage services for supply of power during peak hours. 
 
 
(vi) The modalities for utilization of the contracted capacity during the crunch period shall 
be as under: 
 
a) Out of the contracted capacity,  NVVN would  endeavour  to  sell the power in any 
segment of the power exchange  immediately  after signing of  contract. 
 
b) The selected generators/ energy storage providers may also seek avenues for sale 
of power for part or full crunch period and such sale shall be executed through the 
Nodal Agency. This will ensure  that Nodal Agency is fully aware of the utilization 
of the capacity and there are no contractual complications at a later stage. 
 
c) The Nodal Agency in consultation with NLDC shall communicate to the 
Generators/ storage service providers at least fourteen (14) days in advance about 
the approximate number of crunch days in the following week s  of operation on 
which the generation is likely to be required in the grid. 
 
d) The generators/ energy storage providers shall arrange for the fuel arrangements/ 
charging power requirement and   other necessary  arrangements based on 
generation profile as emerging from above. 
 
e) During the operating week, NLDC will give confirmation for generation/ supply of 
energy to one or more generators/ energy storage providers at 0500 hours on D-1 
day depending on the available MGO quantum with the generators/ energy storage 
providers and requirement of grid. Post this, NVVN will offer the available quantum 
in power exchange. 
 
f) If NLDC   has  given   confirmation   for   part  capacity   on   D -1  basis  to   a 
generator/  energy  storage  provider,  the  Nodal  Agency  may  sell  full/part  of 
the  remaining  contracted  capacity  of that  generator/  energy  storage  provider 
during  peak  hours  in the  market at a  rate which  shall  at  least  be equal  to the 
discovered  rate for that generator/  energy  storage  provider. 
 
g) Any left-over contracted quantum  from  generator/  energy  storage provider, which 
was given confirmation on D -1 day, would be scheduled by NLDC on D  day for  
grid support/requirement  under ancillary  services  as  per IEGC/ancillary  services  
regulation. 
 
(vii) Any energy sold out of contracted capacity shall be counted in the  MGO for that 
generators/ energy storage providers. 
 
(viii) In case of energy requirement beyond MGO quantum, Nodal Agency may schedule   
such energy up to the Contracted Capacity to generators/ energy storage providers 
to supply such additional energy. 
 
(ix) The contract period may be extended up to 31st July 2026, with the consent of the 
selected generators/energy storage providers as per same terms and conditions of 
the supply. 
 
 
(x) The selected bidders will have to arrange fuel/ charging power requirement and other 
arrangements on their own. 
 
(xi) The bidder shall provide the technical details such as maximum, minimum duration for 
which bidder can supply the power on continuous basis along with technical constraint. 
 
(xii) The supplier may be required to start/stop the plant daily in  accordance with the 
power requirement and cleared  schedule. 
 
(xiii) DSM Charges shall be in the scope of generators/ energy storage providers as per 
the applicable DSM  Regulations. 
 
(xiv) The generators/ energy storage providers connected to inter-state or intra-state 
transmission system  participating  in the  bid  shall  have  all  necessary infrastructure  
in place and capability  for scheduling, metering, accounting and settlement on a 15-
minute time- block wise basis as specified in the Indian Electricity Grid Code. The 
generators/ energy storage providers shall provide necessary undertaking that 
sufficient transmission capability is available for injection of power during peak hours. 
 
(xv) No planned maintenance shall be allowed during the identified  crunch period. 
 
(xvi) The schedule which is not able to be fulfilled due to fuel supply  constraint or 
Transmission/Grid constraint, subject to documentary evidence, shall be treated 
as Force Majeure without any liability on either side, and deemed to be fulfilled 
with regard to  Minimum Guaranteed Offtake (MGO) obligation.  Any consequent 
DSM liability due to such constraint will be to the account  of generators/ energy 
storage providers. 
 
4.0   TARIFF STRUCTURE 
 
The tariff payable will be on Rs/ kWh basis fixed for the entire crunch  period. The  tariff  
shall  cover  all  inputs  costs  including  but  not  limited to  such  as  fixed  costs  and  
other  associated  components,  O&M,  fuel,  charging energy,  RtE impact, 
transmission  charges  and  losses  applicable during  charging (in  case  of  storage),   
NVVN  trading   margin,   Power  Exchange  Charges,   state transmission  charges  
and  transmission   losses  (if  any),  SLDC  charges  etc.,  as applicable 
 
Discovered tariff will not be changed during the duration of the contract. 
 
For generation beyond MGO, discovered tariff during competitive bidding shall be payable. 
 
4.1 Availability 
a) During the operating week, NLDC will give confirmation for generation requirement 
to one or more Generators/ Energy Storage Providers  at 0500 hours on D -1 day 
depending on the available MGO quantum with the generators and requirement of 
grid. Post this, NVVN will offer the available quantum in power exchange.  This may 
be subject to revision as per inputs received from NLDC from time to time. 
 
b) On the basis of  generation requirement allocated to Generators/ Energy Storage 
Providers, the Generators/ Energy Storage Providers shall confirm the acceptance of 
generation of same on day ahead basis (D-1) before 08:00 hrs.  
c) The nodal agency shall bid the accepted quantum  by Generators/ Energy Storage 
Providers in the power exchange.  
d) The nodal agency would calculate t he availability Factor for the day based on the 
block wise schedule communicated by Nodal Agency and schedule accepted by 
Generators/ Energy Storage Providers as per following: 
S-Schedule communicated by Nodal Agency to Generators/ Energy Storage 
Providers for the particular block of the day (MWh) 
G- Schedule accepted by Generators/ Energy Storage Providers  for the particular  
block of the day (MWh) 
Energy not scheduled for the block due to non-availability (ENSB) = S-G   if S >G 
                                                                                                    = 0 if S≤ G 
Energy not scheduled for the day due to non-availability ENSD= ∑ENSB 
e) No planned maintenance shall be allowed during the Contract Period under this 
Agreement. 
f) Liquidated damage (LD) for less delivered availability of Generators/ Energy Storage 
Providers shall be calculated as below: 
    LD in Rs. =ENSD*0.1*(Discovered Tariff) *1000 
 
 
4.2   Power Exchange Charges (PXC):  
a) All the charges deducted by Power Exchange for sale of contracted capacity by NVVN 
shall be payable to NVVN by the Seller. NVVN shall deduct the same from the daily 
Payment to the Seller towards sale of power.  
b) NVVN will share the daily obligation report and schedule with the Generators/ Energy 
Storage Providers on receipt of the same from the power exchange. 
c) Client registration charges in Power Exchange(s) shall be in the scope of Generators/ 
Energy Storage Providers. 
d) The bidder  shall be responsible for arranging No Objection Certificate from the 
concerned LDC (SLDC/RLDC) for participation in Power Exchange or TRAS/ SCUC. 
4.3 Trading Margin for Nodal Agency (NVVN):  
NVVN shall be charging a trading margin of Rs. 0.06/kWh (excluding GST) from the 
Generators/ Energy Storage Providers under this scheme for the energy scheduled 
through various segments e.g. Market, Bilateral or under shortfall provisions of TRAS/ 
SCUC. 
4.4 Delivery Point: 
 
 
The power shall be sold and delivered by Seller to NVVN at the delivery point as applicable 
for sale of power in Day Ahead Market in the Power Exchange (ISTS periphery of the region 
where Seller is connected).  
 
5.0 DISPATCH & SETTLEMENT 
 
5.1 Market based dispatch and settlement. 
 
a) The bidding in power exchange shall be considering discovered tariff .  In case of 
excess amount received from power exchange sale after accounting for NVVN trading 
margin, 90% of the same shall be deposited in the DSM and  Ancillary pool account 
after the end of the crunch period and any extension as applicable. However, 10% of 
such excess amount shall be paid to the generator as an incentive after the end of the 
crunch period and any extension as applicable. 
b) NVVN shall bid in the power exchange based on the day ahead availability declared 
by Generators/ Energy Storage Providers as per instruction given by NLDC. The bid-
price for sale of power in Power Exchange segment and/ or bilateral mode etc. shall be 
discovered tariff for respective generator/energy storage provider. 
c) The bid (MW) shall be submitted in power exchange(s) by NVVN in line with the day 
ahead (D-1) assessment/ requirement provided by NLDC.  This may be subject to 
revision as per inputs received from NLDC from time to time.  
d) Generators/ Energy Storage Providers  to strictly follow schedule given by nodal 
agency/ NLDC. 
e) NVVN shall declare tariff for TRAS/ SCUC with adjustment for power exchange 
charges, such that generators/ energy storage providers recover only the total tariff 
(discovered tariff - power exchange charges). Despatch of selected generators/ energy 
storage providers under TRAS/ SCUC shall be as per merit order amongst the selected 
generator(s)/ energy storage provider(s) based on discovered tariff.  It may be n oted 
that there shall not be any incentive over and above the afore mentioned declare tariff 
for TRAS/ SCUC for scheduling of power in TRAS/ SCUC. 
f) The supplier may be required to start/stop the plant in accordance with the NLDC 
generation profile and cleared schedule.  
g) NVVN shall share the daily obligation report and daily schedule with the Seller(s) on 
receipt of the same from the power exchange. 
h) The bidder shall be required to Schedule its power every 15 minutes on daily basis as 
per Indian Electricity Grid Code and the applicable extant regulations. 
i) The Seller shall communicate to NVVN its previous day’s Station Ex -Bus Schedule 
Generation and Station Ex-Bus Actual Generation block wise on daily basis by 08:00 
hours. 
j) Any deviation  from the Schedule shall attract the provisions of CERC Deviation 
Settlement Mechanism regulation. Deviation settlement shall be carried out as per the 
applicable CERC/SERC Regulations and in the absence of SERC Regulations on 
Deviation Settlement, the CER C Deviation Settlement Regulations shall apply to the 
 
Generators/ Energy Storage Providers. 
5.2 Metering: 
a) For installation of Meters, Meter testing, Meter calibration and Meter reading and all 
matters incidental thereto, the bidder shall follow the Central Electricity Authority 
(Installation and Operation of Meters) Regulations, 2006, as amended from time to time. 
b) The bidder shall bear all costs pertaining to installation, testing, calibration, maintenance, 
renewal and repair of meters at its periphery. 
c) In addition to ensuring compliance of the applicable codes, the bidder shall install Main, 
Check as well as Stand-by meter(s) as per Central Electricity Authority (Installation and 
Operation of Meters) Regulations, 2006, as amended from time to time. 
5.4 Energy Accounting 
a) The daily/weekly/ Monthly Energy Account /DSM Account/TRAS Account  issued by 
respective RLDC/SLDC or Regional Power Committee shall be binding on all the parties 
for billing and payment purposes. 
b) In case of any differences, the decisions of the RPC forums/ RLDC/SLDC shall be 
final, and both the Parties shall agree to abide by the decision so finalized. 
c) Any change in the methodology of RLDC/SLDC or Regional Energy Account shall be 
done only as per the decisions taken in the forums and /or CERC orders and both the 
Parties shall agree to abide by the methodology so finalized. 
 
6.0 Settlement for sale of energy in Power Exchange  
a) On the commencement of high demand period, the Nodal Agency will participate in 
power exchange(s)/TRAS shortfall / SCUC  or other market segments  with the 
quantum of power as advised by NLDC sourced from the supplier in each time block.  
 
b) DSM Charges shall be in the scope of Bidder.  
 
7.0 Billing, Payment and Reconciliation: 
 
7.1 Billing, Payment and Reconciliation to Generators/ Energy Storage Providers shall be as 
follows: 
a) The payment due to Generators/ Energy Storage Providers for power exchange(s) 
transactions shall be released on a daily basis as detailed in 7.2 below. 
b) Based on previous day’s Station Ex -Bus Schedule Generation (MWh) & 
corresponding Station Ex -Bus Actual Generation (MWh) block wise communicated 
by Generators/ Energy Storage Providers corresponding to contracted capacity and 
Schedule Energy (MWh) sold in power exchange by Nodal Agency , the payment to 
Generators/ Energy Storage Providers  shall be made towards Day’s scheduled 
Generation in the Power exchange on Provisional Basis as per clause 7.2.  
c) The Seller shall raise monthly invoice(s) on NVVN including the extension period if  
any duly accounting  and adjusting  the applicable LDs , Penalties, under the 
contract. It is further clarified that final settlement of payment towards power 
supply to NVVN under this contract will be after the conclusion of contract based 
on Energy Account(s) and Deviation Settlement Account(s) issued by concerned 
RPC(s)/ RLDCs/ SLDCs. The reconciliation based on energy account issued by 
concerned RPC/RLDC/SLDC shall be final.   
 
 
7.2 Amount due to Seller shall be remitted provisionally based on scheduled generation in 
the power exchange within 1 (one) business day (Due Date) from date of receipt of the 
payment from Power exchange (excluding the date of receipt) to NVVN as elaborated below.: 
 
The amount payable on account of discovered tariff and energy scheduled shall be calculated 
based on Schedule generation in the Power exchange as per the following method: 
 
Energy Charges (X) in Rs. = Discovered Tariff (Rs. /kWh) * (Energy 
Scheduled (in kWh) in the Power Exchange in the relevant period). 
 
(i) Applicable Power Exchange sale related Charges payable by Seller for a day 
(PX): As per daily Power Exchange Obligation Report.  
(ii) NVVN trading margin (TM) = INR 0.06 (plus GST) X Energy Schedule (kWh) 
for the day 
(iii) Liquidated Damage on account of less availability for a day):  
LD in Rs. =ENSD*0.1*(Discovered Tariff) *1000  
ENSD as per clause 4.5 above.  
Net Amount Payable to Generators/ Energy Storage Providers for a day 
(N)= X-PX-LD-TM 
 
In the event of the due date being a holiday, the next working day would be the due date for 
daily remittance. 
 
5% of total payment corresponding to minimum Guaranteed offtake shall be kept against the 
reconciliation amount and shall be released to the generator after the reconciliation. The 
amount against the same shall be recovered from running bill @5% per bill. LPS shall not be 
applicable for the above amount. 
As per clause 7.1(c) the seller shall raise bill duly accounting for all LDs, penalty as 
per published account of RLDC/SLDC/REA at the end of the month.   
 
7.3 For power scheduled through TRAS/ SCUC the payment to the Generators shall be as 
per CERC regulations/guidelines.  
In case scheduling through TRAS/ SCUC, NVVN shall bill trading margin through separate 
invoice on issuance of weekly TRAS/ SCUC  statement, same  shall be payable by 
generator(s) within 12 days from the date of invoice. 
    
7.4 NVVN shall provide payment security to the seller through Revolving Letter of Credit (LC) 
of an amount equal to one day of amount payable to the Seller (X) commensurate to Minimum 
Guaranteed offtake with respect to their contracted capacity. 
   
7.5 SURCHARGE FOR LATE PAYMENT: 
Late payment surcharge shall be payable to the Seller at the rate of 1 5% per annum for 
amount received from power exchange to NVVN and any delay in payment beyond the due 
 
date by NVVN.  Payment period for Sale in other market segments such as TRAS/ SCUC 
and others shall be as per applicable regulations.  
 
Similarly, Late payment surcharge towards trading margin shall be payable to NVVN by seller 
at the rate of 15% per annum for delay in payment beyond due date (13th day from the date 
of invoice).  
 
8.0 BIDDING PROCESS 
8.1 NVVN has adopted a Single-stage Two Envelope bidding process followed by Reverse 
Auction (collectively referred to as the "Bidding Process") for selection of the bidders for 
award of the Project. The first envelope (the "Techno Commercial Bid") of the process  
involves Technical Document of interested parties (the "Bidder") who submit Application and 
Bids in accordance with the provisions of this Bidding Document. Second Envelope is of 
Financial Bids Quoted by the bidder (“Price Bid”). It shall be followed by e -Reverse Auction 
(e-RA) 
 
8.2 The Bidders will be required to submit their Application and Bid online at the Bharat ETS 
Portal on or before the Bid Due Date. 
 
8.3 Bidders would be required to furnish all the information specified in this Bidding Document 
by submitting (a) its Techno Commercial Bid and (b) its Price Bid in accordance with the 
Bidding Document. 
 
8.4 The bidders shall be required to submit separate technical and price bids. Price bid shall 
include offer of total capacity, duration for which it want to supply, Tariff in Rs. /kWh. It shall 
also specify the minimum capacity that the bidder is willing to accept in case bid evaluation 
leads to allocation of capacity lower than that offered by the bidder.  
 
8.5 The Nodal Agency shall constitute a committee for evaluation of the bids (Evaluation 
Committee), with at least three members, including at least one member with expertise in 
financial matters and bid evaluation. The financial bid shall be rejected if it contains any 
deviation from the requirements specified in the bid documents. 
 
8.6 Subsequent to Opening of Price Bid, e-RA will be conducted. Nodal Agency may cancel 
the bidding process in case the price discovered post e -RA is not in line with the market 
scenario. 
 
8.7 The non -financial Bids shall contain the acceptance of general terms and conditions 
without any deviation and information about the sources from which the Bidder shall supply 
the power. 
 
8.8 Financial bids of only technically qualified bidders shall be opened. In the Financial Bid, 
Bidder to quote Total Tariff in Rs. /kWh, Quantum (MW) and Duration (in hours) for which it 
wants to supply.  
 
9.0 Bidding Fees: 
 
 
9.1  Bid Processing Fee: Prior to submission of the Application, the Bidder shall pay to the 
NVVN a sum of Rs 2000/MWH plus 18% GST for the total quoted quantum subject to 
RfS Clause 19.3, as the cost of the Bidding Process. After completion of the bidding 
process i.e. issuance of Letter of Award to Successful Bidder, only Successful Bidder(s) 
will have to pay the equival ent charges for the quantum allocated to each Successful 
Bidder. The balance amount shall be refunded by the NVVN within seven (7) working 
days of completion of the bidding process without any interest and shall not be 
considered for adjustment against Bid  Security. The fees deposited by non -Selected 
Bidders(s) shall also be refunded by the NVVN within seven (7) working days of 
completion of the bidding process i.e. issuance of Letter of Award to Successful Bidder 
without any interest. 
 
Bid processing fee may be submitted through NEFT/RTGS transfer in the account of 
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited as per details given below: 
(i) Bank Name: ICICI Bank Limited 
(ii) Branch: CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
(iii) Bank Address: 9A, PHELPS BUILDING, CONNAUGHT PLACE, NEW DELHI- 
110001 
(iv) IFSC Code: ICIC0000007 
(v) Account No.: 000705008910 
 
or in the form of DD/Pay Order in favor of “NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM.”, payable 
at New Delhi. Applicants willing to participate in the bid process are required to register 
by paying the above cost.  
Invoicing & TDS deduction after the outcome of the bidding process/ e-Auction:  
In case the bidder wins a particular capacity, an invoice shall be generated @8000/MW 
plus GST. Subsequently, the remaining Bid Processing Fee shall be refunded, if any. 
If the Bidder deposits the TDS on invoice amount and provides TDS certificate to 
NVVN, NVVN shall reimburse the TDS amount on receipt of TDS Certificate. 
 
9.2 e-Bidding Fee: In order to participate in this Tender, each Bidder would have to 
deposit towards ‘Application Charges for Bidders’ an amount equal to Rs 400/MW 
(Excluding GST) with the Service Provider of Bharat -Electronic Tender Portal [ETS], 
i.e. ISN Electronic Tender Services Pvt Ltd (ISN -ETS), as per instructions given on 
ETS. In ETS, this amount is referred to as ‘ETS Bidding -Deposit Conditionally 
Refundable (ETS BD -CR)’ and is calculated @ Rs. 400/- per MW plus GST for the 
Capacity for which the bidder is submitting the bid, subject to RfS Clause 19.3. 
  
The amount can be paid online through the following methods:  
1. SBI Payment Gateway facility available on ETS portal  
2. NEFT/RTGS to the following account:  
Beneficiary Name: ISN Electronic Tender Services Pvt. Ltd.  
A/C No.: 661405601452 
Branch: ICICI Bank, Central Arcade, DLF City, Phase-II, Gurgaon - 122002 
IFSC Code: ICIC0006614 
Account Type: Current Account  
  
On the ‘Date of Bid Finalization’, i .e. the date on which written communication is 
 
received by the Service/ Portal Provider of ETS from the Buyer Organization/ 
Auctioneer (ie NVVN LTD.) about the successful/ unsuccessful Bidders, ETS BD -CR 
amount corresponding to the quantity allocated/ awarded to that successful Bidder will 
be retained by the Service/ Portal provider of ETS and treated as ‘ETS Bidding -Fee’ 
(including GST), and the balance amount (without any interest) will be refunded by 
Service/ Portal Provider.  
  
Similarly, for unsuccessful Bidders, the full ETS BD -CR (without any interest) will be 
refunded within Seven (7) working days from the date of receipt of written 
communication by the Service/ Portal Provide r of ETS from the Buyer Organization/ 
Auctioneer (i.e. NVVN LTD.).  
 
Invoicing & TDS deduction after the final outcome of the bidding process/ e -Auction: 
Case -1 (Unsuccessful Bidder): In case the bidder does not win any capacity, the full 
BD -CR amount shall be refunded and therefore no invoice will be given and will not 
be subject to TDS. Case -2 (Successful Bidder): In case the bidder wins a particular 
capacity, an invoice shall be generated @ 400/MW plus GST. The applicable TDS will 
be calculated on the invoice amount and ETS portal Service Provider shall then 
deposit this TDS amount on behalf of the bidder and share a copy of the deposit 
challan. Subsequently, the remaining BD -CR balance shall be refunded, if any. Note: 
The bidder must email a copy of the transaction summary and TAN Number to 
support@isn-ets.com with the "Subject: ’Bidders Name’ - Payment for NVVN Ltd 
Tender ETSBDCR” 
 
9.3  Any bid Not accompanied with Bid Processing Fee & e- Bidding Fee shall be rejected. 
 
10.0 Bid Validity Period 
 
The Bid shall be valid for a period of not less than 30 days from the Bid Due Date. 
 
11.0 Bid Security 
 
11.1 In terms of the RfS, a Bidder will be required to deposit, along with its Bid, a bid security 
of Rs 6,000 (Rupees Six Thousand only) per MWH of capacity offered by the Bidder 
(the "Bid Security"). 
 
11.2 The Bidders will have an option to provide Bid Security in the form of a demand draft 
or a bank guarantee acceptable to NVVN payable at New Delhi or deposited online 
through NEFT/IMPS/RTGS payment. The demand draft shall be kept valid for a period 
not less than 90 (Ninety) days from the Bid Due Date, by submitting another demand 
draft before expiry of the existing demand draft and may be further extended as may 
be mutually agreed between NVVN and the Bidder from time to time. In case a bank 
guarantee is provided, its validity period shall not be less than 90 (Ninety) days from 
the Bid Due Date and may be extended as may be mutually agreed between NVVN 
and the Bidder from time to time.  
 
11.3 The Bid shall be summarily rejected if it is not accompanied by the Bid Security. 
 
 
11.4 The last date of submission of original EMD (Hard Copy) in NVVN Office is before the 
1200 Hrs of Bid Due date. 
 
11.5 If Bid Security may be submitted through NEFT/RTGS transfer in the account of NTPC 
Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited as per details given below: 
(i) Bank Name: ICICI Bank Limited 
(ii) Branch: CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
(iii) Bank Address: 9A, PHELPS BUILDING, CONNAUGHT PLACE, NEW DELHI- 
110001 
(iv) IFSC Code: ICIC0000007 
(v) Account No.: 000705008910 
 
11.6 In case of Bidders opting for Bank Guarantee as Bid Security but unable to submit the 
Original Bank Guarantee in physical form at the tender opening location, before the 
deadline for submission of bids, following shall also be considered acceptable, subject 
to below: 
 
 (i) The issuing bank shall intimate through their own official e -mail id to 
nvvncontracts@ntpc.co.in, with a copy to Bidder regarding issuance / extension of Bank 
Guarantee (BG) along with following documents, before the deadline of submission of 
bids: - 
 
 a) The scanned copy of the BG. 
  
b) SFMS / SWIFT message acknowledgement copy sent to NVVN banker stating the 
date of sending. 
  
c) SFMS / SWIFT message must be sent to the below mentioned NVVN’s bank: 
 
(i) Bank Name: ICICI Bank Limited 
(ii) Branch: CONNAUGHT PLACE BRANCH 
(iii) Bank Address: 9A, PHELPS BUILDING, INNER CIRCLE, NEW DELHI- 
110001 
(iv) IFSC Code: ICIC0000007 
 
BG issuing/amending bank must send the BG advice in the form of message format 
via SFMS (Structured Financial Messaging System) as provided by RBI. 
 
The format of the message for confirmation of the BG shall be as below: 
BG advising message: IFN 760COV/ IFN 767COV via SFMS 
Field Number: Particulars (to be mentioned in Row 1) 
7037: NVVNBG8910 (unique identifier) 
 
 The bidder shall be required to submit all the documents in the manner as specified at 
para above, to reach Nodal Agency before the deadline for submission of bids, failing 
which its bid shall be rejected as being nonresponsive and not opened. 
 
 In such a case, Bidder shall also be required to submit the Original BG in physical form 
 
to reach NVVN at the address mentioned, not later than 3 days from the date of 
submission of Techno-Commercial bids or before the Price Bid opening, whichever is 
earlier, failing which its bid shall be rejected and not considered for further evaluation.  
 
(ii) The soft copy of the original EMD needs to be uploaded on Bharat ETS portal before 
Bid due Date.  
  
11.7 The EMD shall be refunded to the unsuccessful Bidders within 7 days of expiry of Bid 
validity period. 
 
11.9 The EMD of the Successful Bidder(s) shall be refunded after furnishing the Contract 
Performance Guarantee (CPG). 
 
11.10 The EMD shall be forfeited:  
a) If Bidder withdraws bid during Bid Validity Period except as provided in these 
guidelines.  
b) For non-submission of Contract Performance Guarantee by Successful Bidder(s). 
c) For non-signing of Agreement. 
d) If any declaration is found to be false. 
 
12.0 Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) 
 
12.1 The Successful Bidder(s) will furnish CPG  for an amount calculated at Rs. 33,000 
(Rupees Thirty-Three Thousand only) per MWH within 7 days from the date of letter of 
award by NVVN or prior to start of schedule, whichever is earlier. 
 
12.2 The Successful Bidders will have an option to provide CPG in the form of a demand 
draft or a bank guarantee acceptable to NVVN payable at New Delhi or deposited online 
through NEFT/IMPS/RTGS payment in the NVVN Bank Account.  
 
12.3 If the Bank Guarantee is submitted, it shall be valid for 45 days after the period of 
Contract with a claim period of 1 month from the expiry of bank guarantee in the format as 
specified in Annexure VIII. In case of any extension of the contract period, unconditional 
extension of validity of CPG shall be provided by the seller. 
 
12.4 In the event that the CPG is not furnished within the stipulated date, the EMD submitted 
against the Notification shall be forfeited and the contract shall be treated as cancelled. 
 
12.5 The CPG provided by the Successful Bidder(s) shall be forfeited for non- performing the 
contractual obligations or furnishing the false information. In case the Bidder/Seller fails to 
offer the contracted power as per the LoA/Agreement to the Procurer and sells this power to 
any other party, this shall be treated as non-performance, the contract shall be treated as 
cancelled and the Procurer shall be entitled to forfeit the CPG. The seller shall be further 
debarred from participating in power exchange and also from scheduling this power in any 
short term/medium term/long term contracts from that generating station for a period of 3 
months from establishment of default. 
 
12.6 On successful completion of the Contract and submission of requisite certification by 
 
Seller, the CPG without interest shall be released by NVVN, within 30 days from the end of 
Contract Period. 
 
13.0 Clarifications 
 
13.1 Bidders requiring any clarification on the RfS may notify NVVN in writing online at 
Bharat ETS Portal or by speed post/courier and by e -mail to 
nvvncontracts@ntpc.co.in attaching the queries in Microsoft word file.  They should 
send in their queries before Last date and time for receiving queries on Bidding 
Document as per RfS Document. NVVN shall endeavour to respond to the queries 
within the period specified therein. The responses will be sent by e -mail or online at 
the Bharat ETS Portal. NVVN will forward all the queries and its responses thereto, 
to all Bidders without identifying the source of queries or upload all the queries and 
its responses on the Portal. 
 
13.2 The Nodal Agency shall provide opportunities for pre -bid conference to the 
prospective bidders in accordance with the schedule specified in this RfS.  
 
13.3    NVVN shall endeavor to respond to the questions raised or clarifications sought by 
the Bidders. However, NVVN reserves the right not to respond to any question or 
provide any clarification, in its sole discretion, and nothing in this Clause shall be 
taken or read as compelli ng or requiring NVVN to respond to any question or to 
provide any clarification. 
 
13.4 NVVN may also on its own motion, if deemed necessary, issue interpretations and 
clarifications to all Bidders. All clarifications and interpretations issued by NVVN shall 
be deemed to be part of the RfS. Verbal clarifications and information given by NVVN, 
or its employees or representatives shall not in any way or manner be binding on 
NVVN. 
 
14.0 Amendment of RfS 
 
14.1 At any time prior to the deadline for submission of Application, NVVN may, for any 
reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to clarifications requested by a 
Bidder, modify the RfS by the issuance of Addenda.  
 
14.2 Any Addendum thus issued will be available at the Portal. The Bidders are advised 
to check the Bharat ETS Portal for any amendments or notifications. 
 
14.3 In order to afford the Bidders a reasonable time for taking an Addendum into account, 
or for any other reason, NVVN may, in its sole discretion, extend the Bid Due Date. 
 
15.0 Bid Submission 
 
15.1 To ensure competitiveness, the minimum number of Bidders should be at least two. If 
the number of Bidders responding to the RfS is less than two, and Nodal Agency still wants 
to continue with the selection process, the selection of that single Bidder may be done.  
 
 
15.2 The bidders shall be required to submit separate technical and price bids. Price bid shall 
include offer of total capacity in MW, duration for which it want to supply (in hours) and Tariff 
in Rs./kWh upto two decimal basis. It shall also specify the minimum capacity that the bidder 
is willing to accept in case bid evaluation leads to allocation of capacity lower than that offered 
by the bidder. The Bids shall be strictly as per the terms of RfS and shall be unconditional. 
Conditional and incomplete bids are liable to rejection.  
 
15.3 The Bidder will have the option to indicate their minimum threshold quantity and the 
same would be considered for allocation of power to the Bidder(s), subject to the minimum 
bid quantity. 
 
15.4 Documents required to be uploaded as per this RfS shall contain: 
 
1. Bid Processing Fee as per Clause 9.1  
2. Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security as per Clause 11.0 (Annexure I) 
3. Power of Attorney for signing and submission of bid. 
4. If the capacity being offered is tied up in PPA, Bidder will inform the PPA 
beneficiaries for bidding of the power during the high demand period and shall not 
bill fixed charges for the contracted power during this contract period under this 
scheme (Annexure II)  
OR 
Affidavit by bidder that they have untied capacity during identified high demand 
period and shall submit bid for quantum not exceeding the untied capacity for 
bidding of the power during identified high demand period. (Annexure IIA) 
5. Declaration regarding enablement of ABT compliant metering and telemetering. 
(Annexure-IV) 
6. Affidavit by bidder that plant is connected to  Interstate or Intrastate Transmission 
System. (Annexure III) 
7. Certificate of Incorporation 
8. No Deviation Certificate as per Annexure V. 
9. PAN & GST Details as per Annexure VI. 
10. EFT Form as per Annexure VII 
 
15.5 If any documents mentioned in clause 15.4 above are not submitted or is incomplete, 
the bid will be considered non-responsive and is liable for rejection. 
 
15.6 Hardcopy of the Bid Security, Bid Processing Fee, No deviation certificate and Notarized 
Power of Attorney to be submitted at NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited, 5 th Floor, 
Engineering Office Complex, A-8A, Sector -24, Noida -201301 (U.P.) before 17:00 Hours IST 
on bid due date. 
 
16.0 Bid Due Date 
 
Applications should be submitted online latest by 12.00 hours IST on the Bid Due Date, at 
the Bharat ETS Portal in the manner and form as detailed in this RfS. 
 
Nodal Agency may, in its sole discretion, extend the Bid Due Date by issuing an Addendum 
uniformly for all Bidders. 
 
 
17.0 Late Bid 
 
Applications will not be accepted for submission at the Portal after the time specified on the 
Bid Due Date. 
 
18.0 OPENING AND EVALUATION OF BID 
 
18.1 Technical proposals will be opened by Nodal Agency or its authorized representative 
electronically from the website stated above, using their Digital Signature Certificate. 
 
18.2 Technical proposals for those bidders whose original copies of EMD have been 
received, and who have deposited the Bid Processing Fees, will only be opened. Proposals 
corresponding to which original copy of DD /BG towards EMD & proof of submission of Bid 
Processing Fee has not been received, will not be opened and will stand rejected.  
 
18.3 Decrypted (transformed into readable formats) documents of the Statutory and Non -
statutory Covers will be downloaded for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
18.4 Nodal Agency or its authorized representative can seek clarifications/documents 
required in connection with technical bid. After acceptance of the non-financial technical Bids, 
the Financial Bids, shall be opened as per the procedures specified in the Bid document. 
 
18.5 After opening of Price Bids, the system will rank the Bidders according to their price 
bids. The price bids of initial offer shall be ranked on the basis of ascending order for 
conducting the eRA. The lowest price bid shall be the reference price for eRA . While 
conducting the e-RA, the H1 bidder shall be eliminated, if such elimination does not lead to 
availability of power below 12000 MWh per day. 
 
The Nodal agency may cancel the bidding process in case the price discovered is not in line 
with the market scenario. 
 
19.0 E - REVERSE AUCTION (e-RA) 
 
19.1 The shortlisted Bidder will be intimated individually by system generated emails only.  
  
 The Reverse Auction should start at date and time intimated to the bidders and shall 
continue for a period of next 120 minutes. 
  
 Provided that during the last 10 (ten) minutes before the scheduled close time of e -
Reverse auction, if a price bid is received which is lower than the lowest prevailing 
price bid recorded in the system during e-Reverse auction, the close time of e-Reverse 
Auction will be automatically extended by 10(ten) minutes from the time of the last 
price bid received. This process of auto extension will continue till there is a period of 
10 (ten) minutes during which no price bid are received which is lower than the  
prevailing lowest price bid. 
 
19.2 During the Reverse Auction the Bidders will have the option of reducing the 
 
Tariff quoted by them in decrements of Rs 0.01 or multiples thereof and bidder 
shall not be allowed to change the quantum and duration during the auction. During 
the Reverse Auction the prevailing L1 price  would be visible to all the 
Bidders. 
 
 
20.0 ISSUANCE OF LETTER OF AWARD (LoA) 
 
20.1 The Bidder after the e -RA process will be ranked in accordance with offer price in 
Rs./kWh in ascending order. The list would also include the name, quantum offered,  
duration for which bidder want to supply  and offer price in Rs./kWh quoted by those 
qualified Bidder(s). The Bidder(s), in order of their rankings, offering the quantum of 
power upto the requisitioned capacity would be the Successful Bidder(s). In the event, 
if two or more Bidders quote the same amount of offer price in Rs./kWh during e - 
Reverse Auction stage, the time of submission of bid will be the deciding factor for 
their ranking. 
 
 The list of shortlisted bidders for consideration of bucket filling shall be arrived at by 
considering the bids whose offer price in Rs./kWh are less than or equal to 1 25% of 
the discovered lowest offer price in Rs./kWh.  
 
20.2 Nodal Agency shall have the right to issue Letter of Award (LoA ) to the Shortlisted 
Bidder(s) in the same order to fulfil its requirement, which can be lower than the 
Requisitioned Capacity but not less than minimum capacity that the bidder is willing 
to accept. In the event Nodal Agency rejects or annuls all the Bids, it may go for fresh 
Bids hereunder.  
 
20.3 In case of additional requirement than the contracted capacity, bidder may be asked 
to provide additional capacity at their quoted rates, terms and conditions, in the order 
of the ranking as in clause 20.1. 
 
20.4 After selection, a Letter of Award (the “LoA”) shall be issued in duplicate by Nodal 
Agency to the Selected Bidder(s). The Selected Bidder(s) shall sign and return the 
duplicate copy of the LoA in acknowledgement thereof. In the event the duplicate copy 
of the LoA duly signed by the Selected Bidder(s) is not received by the stipulated date, 
Nodal Agency may, unless it consents for extension of time for submission thereof, 
forfeit the EMD of such Bidder as Damages on account of failure of the Selected 
Bidder(s) to acknowledge the LoA. 
 
21.0 CONTRACT AWARD AND CONCLUSION 
 
21.1 After acknowledgement of LoA by the Selected Bidder(s), Nodal Agency shall cause the 
Selected Bidder(s) to execute the PPA within the prescribed period in the Bid document. The 
Selected Bidder(s) shall not be entitled to seek any deviation, modification or amendment in 
the PPA. Nodal Agency would appropriate the EMD of such Bidder as Damages on account 
of failure of the Selected Bidder(s) to execute the PPA.  
 
 
21.2 PPA will be signed with the selected Bidders within 7 days from issuance of LOA. 
 
22.0 RIGHT TO ACCEPT / REJECT THE BID 
 
22.1 Lowest valid rate of the price bid should normally be accepted as per bucket filling. The 
Nodal agency may cancel the bidding process in case the price discovered is not in line with 
the market scenario. 
22.2 Nodal Agency reserves the right to accept or reject a bid if Nodal Agency considers that 
the implementation of the Award and/or PPA is affected by implications of any pending 
litigation or otherwise disputes with the bidder / supplier or the Award and/or PPA under this 
RfS will have any impact of implication on the pending litigation or otherwise disputes with 
the bidder/supplier. 
 
23.0 FORCE MAJEURE 
 
Force Majeure means occurrence of any event or circumstance, or combination of events 
and circumstances stated below that wholly or partly prevents an affected party in the 
performance of its obligations under PPA. 
 
i. Any restriction imposed by RLDC/SLDC in scheduling of power due to breakdown 
of Transmission/Grid constraint shall be treated as Force Majeure without any 
liability on either side, subject to documentary evidence. 
ii. Any of the events or circumstances, or combination of events and circumstances 
such as act of God, exceptionally adverse weather conditions, lightning, flood, 
cyclone, earthquake, volcanic eruption, fire or landslide or acts of terrorism causing 
disruption of the system. 
iii. Non-availability of charging power to energy storage providers due to transmission 
constraint or fuel to Generators due to constraints in fuel supply infrastructure.  
Provided that confirmation regarding existence of such constraint is certified by the 
Gas Transporter/grid operator (as applicable).  
However, the schedule which is not able to be fulfilled due to above fuel supply 
constraint or Transmission/Grid constraint, subject to documentary evidence, shall  
be treated as Force Majeure without any liability on either side, and deemed to be 
fulfilled with regard to Minimum Guaranteed Offtake (MGO) obligation. A ny 
consequent DSM liability due to such constraint will be to the account of generators/ 
energy storage providers. 
 
24.0 CHANGE IN LAW 
 
Change in Law provision shall not be applicable for this Contract. 
 
25.0 INDEMNITY 
 
Nodal Agency and it’s  representatives shall not be liable for any Compensation or Penalty 
 
under any circumstances under this Agreement. Moreover the nodal agency is indemnified 
at all times and the seller shall undertake to indemnify, defend and save the Nodal  Agency 
harmless from any and all damages, losses, claims and actions, including thos e relating to 
injury to or death of any person or damage to property, demands, suits, recoveries, costs 
and expenses, court costs, attorney fees, and all other obligations by or to third parties, 
arising out of or resulting from the bidding process and sup ply of power and it’s 
consequences 
26.0 COMMUNICATION 
i. All parties shall rely on written communication only. 
ii. The Bid submitted by the Bidder and all correspondence and documents relating to the 
bid shall be written in English. 
iii.  Nodal Agency reserves the right to ask for the additional information from the Bidder 
through letter/ e-mail / fax only. The e-mail ids: nvvncontracts@ntpc.co.in 
27.0 GOVERNING LAW 
All matters arising out of or in conjunction with the Bid Document and/or the bidding process 
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Indian law and the courts of Delhi 
shall have exclusive jurisdiction.  
 
28.0 DISCLAIMER 
 
Neither Nodal Agency nor its employees shall be liable to any Bidder or any other person 
under any law including the law of contract, tort, the principles of restitution or unjust 
enrichment or otherwise for any loss, expense or damage which may arise, or be incurred, 
or suffered, in connection with the bid, or any other information supplied by or on behalf of 
Nodal Agency or its employees. For the avoidance of doubt, it is expressly clarified that this 
Bid Document is an offer to bid and it subject to the award of LoA / PPA by Nodal Agency 
and unconditional acceptance of the LoA / PPA by the selected Bidder will be construed as 
acceptance of terms and Condition. 
 
29.0 FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY 
 
The Bidder shall strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention Policy of Nodal Agency displayed on 
its tender website www.nvvn.co.in and shall immediately apprise Nodal Agency about any 
fraud or suspected fraud as soon as it comes to their notice. Submission of bid is considered 
as that the bidder’s acceptance of fraud prevention policy. If in terms of above policy, it is 
established that the bidder/his representatives have committed any fraud while competing 
for this contract then the bid shall be rejected and CPG/EMD shall be forfeited. 
 
30.0 DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 
30.1 Any dispute, difference or controversy of whatever nature howsoever arising under 
or out of or in relation to this Agreement (including its interpretation) between the 
parties and so notified in writing by either Party to the other Party (the “Dispute”) shall, 
 
in the first instance, be attempted to be resolved amicably. 
30.2 The parties agree to use their best efforts for resolving all Disputes arising under or 
in respect of this Agreement promptly, equitably and in good faith, and further agree 
to provide each other with reasonable access during normal business hours to all 
non-privileged records, information and data pertaining to any Dispute.  
30.3 If in spite of their best efforts, the parties fail to resolve the dispute, the same shall be 
referred for resolution under the conciliation Committee of Independent Experts 
(CCIE) constituted by the central Government. 
 
All other disputes shall be resolved by arbitration under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996. 
 
31.0 VENDOR CODE CREATION 
 
Bidders are required to submit Annexure VI (Details of PAN & GST) & Annexure VII (EFT 
FORM) along with their bid for creation of Vendor code with NVVN.
 
ANNEXURE I 
BID SECURITY 
To  
 
NVVN Limited 
5th Floor, EOC Building,  
NTPC Sector 24, Noida  
 
Dear Sirs,  
 
In accordance with Invitation for Bids under your Bid Document No. M/s ............................. 
(***) ......................... having its Registered/ Head Office at 
..................................................................... (hereinafter ca lled the “Bidder”) wish to 
participate in the said bid for [Name of Package] ...........................................................  
 
As an irrevocable Bank Guarantee against Bid Security for an amount of .............(*) valid for 
............ days from ……(**) required to be submitted by the Bidder as a condition precedent 
for participation in the said bid which amount is liable to be forfeited on the happening of any 
contingencies mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
We, the .....................................[Name & address of the Bank]……………………… having 
our Head Office at………………..(#)… guarantee and undertake to pay immediately on 
demand by ……………..[Name of the Nodal Agency] (hereinafter called the ‘Nodal 
Agency’)… the amount of ....................(*)………….... without any reservation, protest, 
demand and recourse. Any such demand made by the ‘Nodal Agency’ shall be conclusive 
and binding on us irrespective of any dispute or difference raised by the Bidder.  
 
This guarantee shall be irrevocable and shall remain valid upto ..............(@) If any further 
extension of this guarantee is required, the same shall be extended to such required period 
(not exceeding one year) on receiving instructions from M/s 
............................(***).............................[Bidder’s Name] ................................................... on 
whose behalf this guarantee is issued.  
 
In witness where of the Bank, through its authorized officer, has set its hand and stamp on 
this ................................ day of ............................ 20............... at ................... .  
 
…………………………………………….  
(Signature)  
…………………………………………….  
(Name)  
…………………………………………….    Authorised vide  
(Designation with Bank Stamp)   Power of Attorney No............................ 
 
NOTE: - 
1. The BG should be on Non-Judicial Stamp paper/ e-stamp paper of appropriate value 
as per Stamp Act prevailing in the State(s) where the BG is submitted or is to be acted upon 
or the rate prevailing in the State where the BG is executed, whichever is higher. The Stamp 
Paper/ e-Stamp Paper shall be purchased in the name of Bidder/ Bank issuing the guarantee. 
  
 
Annexure-II 
Declaration from bidder regarding intimation to PPA beneficiaries for bidding of the 
power during the crunch period 
 
 
To 
NVVN Limited 
5th Floor, EOC Building,  
NTPC Sector 24, Noida  
 
We, ………………………., owner of generation/ energy storage provider  is bidding for the 
RfS reference number NVVN\C&M\RE-501\2025-26, we have informed to our beneficiary 
…………………………. for participating in this bid.  
 
We declare that no fixed charges shall be billed to PPA beneficiaries for the total contracted 
quantum for the contract period. 
 
 
 
 
        For Bidder: 
 
        Signature & Stamp: 
 
        Name: 
        Date: 
        Place: 
        Designation: 
 
  
 
Annexure-IIA 
Affidavit for the untied capacity 
 
 
To 
NVVN Limited 
5th Floor, EOC Building,  
NTPC Sector 24, Noida  
 
 
With reference to the Bid Proposal No. ………………………………. dated ………… as per 
RfS document, the bidder declares that the capacity bid under this tender is an untied 
capacity i.e. there is no existing agreement for this capacity with any buyer. 
 
 
 
 
          
 
        Signature & Stamp: 
 
Name: 
        Date: 
        Place: 
        Designation: 
         
 
Annexure-III 
Compliance Certificate for Provisions of IEGC 2010/2023 
 
With reference to the Bid Proposal No. ………………………………. dated ………… as per 
RfS document, 
 
I, ………. S/…………………., aged ……… years working as …………, with ………………. 
having its registered office at ………………………., do hereby solemnly affirm and state as 
follows:  
 
 A. I am the representative of ……….. and authorized to deal with Sale / Purchase 
of power on behalf of ……………… (hereinafter referred to as the ‘……………’) 
and I am duly authorized to make this affidavit.  
 B. That I am dealing with the Sale of power on behalf of the applicant for signing 
and submission of bid document ……published by …..dated …in Bharat ETS 
Portal by ……..  
 C. The applicant declares that the bidder is an owner of the Generating station/ 
Energy Storage Provider from where electricity shall be supplied.  
 D. The applicant further declares that the confirmed that the Generating station/ 
energy storage provider from which the electricity shall be supplied is connected 
to Interstate or intrastate transmission system. 
 E. The applicant indemnifies the nodal agency (NVVN) against any consequence 
or liability, including the cost of litigation, which may arise on account of dispute 
involving and consequent to any liability arising out of participation and supply of 
power against the tender …. under this application.  
 F. I say that above affidavit is being given on the clear understanding that the 
same is for compliance to participation as qualifying requirement against tender 
no NVVN\C&M\RE-501\2025-26 issued under this RfS Documents.  
 G. I Confirm that sufficient transmission capability is available for injection of 
power during peak hours for complete period of contract including extension. 
 
 
The statements made in this affidavit herein are based on the Company’s official record 
maintained in the ordinary course of business and I believe them to be true and correct. 
 
  
   (Signature)......................................... 
 
                              (Printed Name) .................................. 
 
   (Designation).................................... 
 
                    (Common Seal)................................. 
 
ANNEXURE IV 
(Declaration regarding enablement of ABT compliant metering and telemetering) 
With reference to the Bid Proposal No. ………………………………. dated ………… as per 
RfS document, we declare that we fulfill following qualification criteria 
 
“The Generators/ Energy Storage Providers  connected to inter -state or intra -state 
transmission system participating in the bid shall have all necessary infrastructure in place 
and capability for scheduling, metering, accounting and settlement on a 15-minute time-block 
wise basis as specified in the Indian Electricity Grid Code (IEGC). The grid connected entity 
(inter-state and intra -state) shall provide real time telemetry of the parameters as may be 
specified by the appropriate Load Dispatch Center (LDC) (RLDC/SLDC).”  
 
   (Signature)......................................... 
 
                              (Printed Name) .................................. 
 
   (Designation).................................... 
 
                    (Common Seal)................................. 
 
  
 
ANNEXURE V 
NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATE 
 
 
 
 BIDDER’S NAME AND ADDRESS:       
  
 TO: 
 
NVVN Limited 
5th Floor, EOC Building,  
NTPC Sector 24, Noida  
 
DEAR SIR, 
 
1.0   With reference to our Bid Proposal No. ………………………………. dated ………… for 
“Procurement of Electricity from Generators/ Energy Storage Providers for April 
– June 2026”, we hereby confirm that we comply with all terms, conditions and 
specifications of the Bidding Documents read in conjunction with Amendments(s)/ 
Clarification(s) /Addend/Errata (if any) issued by the Nodal Agency prior to opening of 
Techno-Commercial Bid s and the same has been taken into consideration while 
making our Techno-Commercial Bid & Price Bid and we declare that we have not taken 
any deviation in this regard. 
 
2.0 We further confirm that any deviation, variation or additional condition etc. or any 
mention, contrary to Bidding Documents and its Amendments(s)/Clarification(s) 
/Addend/Errata (if any) as mentioned at 1.0 above found anywhere in our Techno -
Commercial Bid and/ or Price Bid, implicit or explicit shall stand unconditionally with 
drawn, without any cost implication whatsoever to Nodal Agency, failing which the bid 
security shall be forfeited. 
 
 
DATE: 
 
PLACE: 
    
   (Signature)......................................... 
 
                            (Printed Name) .................................. 
 
   (Designation).................................... 
  
                    (Common Seal).................................
 
ANNEXURE VI 
DETAILS OF PAN and GSTIN 
To, 
NVVN Limited 
5th Floor, EOC Building,  
NTPC Sector 24, Noida  
 
Dear Sir, 
The details of our registration in line with the various authorities are as under: 
(a) PAN number 
Our PAN number is as under: 
Note: Copy of card indicating PAN number duly attested by the bidder under his 
seal and signature to be submitted. 
 
(b) GSTIN (if applicable): 
Our GSTIN is 
Note : Copy of registration with up to amendment to be enclosed.
 
Permanent Account Number 
 
GSTIN 
 
ANNEXURE VII 
 (ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER) 
 
Bidder's Name and Address:                         To   NTPC VIDYUT VYAPAR NIGAM LIMITED, 
5th Floor, Engineering Office Complex 
A-8A, Sector-24, Noida-2013001 
Email: nvvncontracts@ntpc.co.in 
Dear Sirs, 
We, hereby authorize the Nodal Agency to make all our payments through Electronic Fund 
Transfer System. The details for facilitating the payments are given below: 
(TO BE FILLED IN CAPITAL LETTERS) 
1. NAME OF THE BENEFICIARY 
 
                                       
                                       
2. ADDRESS 
 
                           
                           
                           
PIN CODE         
3. TELEPHONE NO. (WITH STD CODE) 
 
                  
4. BANK PARTICULARS 
(A) BANK NAME 
 
             
(B) BANK TELEPHONE NO. (WITH STD CODE) 
 
             
 
 
(C) BRANCH 
ADDRESS 
 
                        
                        
                        
PIN CODE         
(D) BANK FAX NO (WITH STD CODE) 
 
             
(E) BRANCH CODE 
 
             
(F) 9 DIGIT MICR CODE OF THE BANK BRANCH (ENCLOSE COPY OF A CANCELLED 
CHEQUE) 
 
             
(G) IFSC Code OF THE BANK BRANCH 
 
             
(H) BANK ACCOUNT NUMBER 
 
             
(I) BANK ACCOUNT TYPE (TICK ONE) 
 
SAVING CURRENT LOAN CASH 
CREDIT 
OTHERS 
IF OTHERS, SPECIFY 
 
             
5. PERMANENT ACCOUNT NUMBER (PAN) 
 
                  
6. E-MAIL ADDRESS FOR INTIMATION REGARDING RELEASE OF PAYMENTS 
 
                  
 
I/We hereby declare that the particulars given above are correct and complete. If the 
transaction is delayed or credit is not affected at all for reasons of incomplete or incorrect 
information, I/We would not hold the NVVN responsible. 
 
SIGNATURE 
DATE       (AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
      
        NAME: 
         
         
 
OFFICIAL STAMP 
 
BANK CERTIFICATION: 
It is certified that above mentioned beneficiary holds a bank account no. 
............................. 
with our branch and the Bank particulars mentioned above are correct. 
 
DATE        NAME: 
      
SIGNATURE: 
OFFICIAL STAMP   
(AUTHORISED SIGNATORY) 
Authorization No. : 
         
         
 
ANNEXURE VIII 
PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE 
(To be submitted on Non-Judicial Stamp Paper) 
 
To 
NVVN Limited 
 EOC, NTPC  
 Sector -24, Noida 
 
WHEREAS (name and address of Contractor) (hereinafter called “the Contractor”) has 
undertaken, in pursuance of Contract No. dated awarded by 
NVVN Limited (hereinafter called as “the Nodal Agency”) to execute  (name of the Contract and 
brief description of Works) (hereinafter called “the Nodal Agency”. 
 
AND WHEREAS it had been stipulated in the said Contract that the Contractor shall furnish the Nodal 
Agency with a Bank Guarantee by a recognized bank for Rs. (Rupees  ) in 
lieu of the deduction to be made by the contractor or in lieu of the security deposit to be made by the 
Contractor in lieu of the deduction to be made from the Contractor’s bills for the due fulfilment by the said 
Contractor of the terms and conditions contained in the said Contract. 
 
We, (indicate the name & address of the Bank) do 
hereby undertake to pay the amounts payable under this guarantee without any demur, reservation, 
contest or recourse, merely on a demand from the Nodal Agency stating that the amount claimed is by 
reason of breach by the said Contractor of any of the terms or conditions contained in the Agreement or 
by reason of the contractor’s failure to perform the said agreement, any such demand made on the Bank 
shall be conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the Bank under this guarantee. However, 
our liability under this Guarantee shall be restricted to an amount not exceeding Rs. 
   and the Nodal Agency need not prove or show grounds or reasons for its demand. 
 
We undertake to pay to the Nodal Agency any money so demanded not withstanding and dispute or 
disputes raised by the Contractor/Supplier in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or Tribunal 
relating thereto our liability under this present being absolute and unequivocal. The payments made by us 
under this Bond shall be a valid discharge of our liability for payment there under and the 
contractor/supplier shall have no claim against us for making such payment. 
 
We,   (indicate name & address of the Bank) further. 
agree that the guarantee herein contained shall remain in full force and effect during the period that will 
be taken for the performance of the said Agreement and that it shall continue to be enforceable till all the 
dues of the Nodal Agency under or by virtue of the said Agreement have been fully paid and its claims 
satisfied or discharged or till the Nodal Agency certifies that the terms and conditions of the said Agreement 
have been fully and properly carried out by the said contractor and accordingly discharges its guarantee. 
 
Unless a demand or claim under this guarantee is made on us in writing on or before the   (the 
date shall be not  earlier than 30 days beyond the completion of the period of the contract), we shall be 
discharged from all liability under this guarantee thereafter unless the validity of the guarantee is extended.
 
We, (indicate name of the Bank) 
further agree with the Nodal Agency that the Nodal Agency shall have the fullest liberty without 
our consent and without effecting in any manner our obligations hereunder to vary any of the 
terms and conditions of the said Agreement or to extend time of performance by the said 
contractor from time to time or to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers 
exercisable by the Nodal Agency against the said contractor and to forbear or enforce any of the 
terms and conditions relating to the said Agreement and we shall not be relieved from our liability 
by reason of any such variation, or extension being granted to the said Contractor or for any 
forbearance, act or omission on the part of the Nodal Agency or any indulgence by the Nodal 
Agency to the said Contractor or by any such matter or thing whatsoever which under the law 
relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have effect of so relieving us. 
 
This guarantee will not be discharged due to change in the constitution of the Bank or the 
contractor/supplier. 
 
We, (indicate name of the Bank) lastly undertake 
not to revoke this guarantee during its currency except with the previous consent of the Nodal 
Agency in writing. 
 
Dated this day of (month) (Year) 
 
 
Yours faithfully 
 
Witness: (Signature)................................... 
 
....................................................... (Name)......................................... 
(Signature) 
(Designation with ............................ 
...................................................... Bank Seal) 
(Name) 
Power of Attorney No....................... 
..................................................... 
(Official Address) Date............................................. 
 
Stamp ............................................ 
 
 
NOTE: - 
1. The BG should be on Non -Judicial Stamp paper/ e -stamp paper of appropriate 
value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the State(s) where the BG is submitted or is 
to be acted upon or the rate prevailing in the State where the BG is executed, 
whichever is higher. The Stamp Paper/ e-Stamp Paper shall be purchased in the 
name of Bidder/ Bank issuing the guarantee. 
 