Page 1 of 7 
 
 
 
INVITATION for 
 EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)  
for  
Identifying Prospective buyers for Brick rejects and debris from NTPC 
Ash Brick Plant 
 
EOI No: NTPC-Sipat/AUD/2025-26/EOI/003                             Date: 16/02/2026 
 
Last Date and time of EOI Submission: 12/03/2026 till 17:00Hrs 
 
NTPC Sipat invites Expression of Interest from interested agencies/individuals to identify 
prospective buyers brick rejects and debris accumulated in NTPC ash brick plant.   
Detailed information has been provided in Part -1: General Information  and format to 
submit Expression of In terest is provided in Part-2: Format for submitting EOI  of this 
document.  
Interested agencies/individuals may apply in  line with the procedures stipulated hereby 
and submit the duly signed EOI  along with the supporting documents in the prescribed 
manner and within specified period. 
However, merely submitting the documents as requested in the EOI shall not be construed 
as selection of buyer . The recei ved documents through this EOI shall be 
screened/reviewed by NTPC Sipat to formulate further strategy and terms and conditions 
for selling.  The process for auctioning/bidding shall be carriedout separately afterwards 
with detailed terms and conditions.. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Page 2 of 7 
 
 
 
PART 1:  GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
1. General Details:  
1.1. NTPC Sipat (2980 MW Power Plant), a leading power generating unit of the largest 
power utility of India , NTPC Ltd , is located in  the Bilaspur District of the state 
Chhattisgarh.  
1.2. NTPC Sipat is approximately 25 KM from Bilaspur Railway station and is well 
connected by road  to nearby cities like Bilaspur, Raipur, Korba Ambikapur, 
Jagdalpur etc. It is also in the proximity with the  states of  Madhya Pradesh, 
Jharkhand and Odisha. 
1.3. NTPC Sipat operates a fly ash brick plant within its premises with a n installed 
production capacity of 2 lakh bricks per day . The brick plant has a storage 
capacity of approximately 35-40 lakh bricks.  
1.4. The brick manufacturing operations generates  rejects and debris in the form of 
dried and crushed material mix. In addition, during the loading operations of bricks, 
brick pieces are broken and not loaded. These crushed mix and broken bricks are 
being stored in the yard of brick plant as debris and rejects. On an average daily 4 
to 5 MT of debris is being generated in the plant. 
2. EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
2.1. NTPC Sipat invites this Expressions of Interest to identify prospective buyers of 
brick rejects and debris from NTPC ash brick plant periodically. 
2.2. The successful buyer shall be entitled to reuse, trade, sell the debris or make any 
other use in any lawful manner.  
2.3. The successful buyer shall need to deploy required resources for removal of rejects 
within stipulated period. 
2.4. The estimated quantity of brick rejects/debris accumulated and currently kept in the 
ash brick plant is 150-200 Nos of fully loaded TATA Hyva (12 wheeled) trucks. 
In addition, daily roughly 4-5 MT debris/rejects is being generated. 
2.5. However, the quantity mentioned above is merely an approximate estimation, and 
agencies are advised to check and assess the available quantities themselves. 
Subject officer may be contacted over phone/personally for the visit. No claim shall 
be entertained later based on intimated quantities in the EOI. 
2.6. WHO MAY APPLY: Any individual having AADHAR, PAN and GST registration or 
any registered firm/registered PAP cooperative society may apply. 
2.7. Any individual/agency currently not registered for GSTIN may also apply. However, 
if award is placed, GSTIN regist ration shall be prerequisite for issuing LOA/PO. If 
not registered within a month award shall be cancelled. 
Page 3 of 7 
 
 
 
2.8. Period of lifting: This is a periodic removal work. Considering the accumulated 
quantities of debris and daily addition, agencies are advised to suggest a suitable 
period for lifting as sought in the format.  
3. EVALUATION of Applications: 
3.1. All the EOIs received in the stipulated time frame shall be duly evaluated by NTPC 
to formulate strategy for adopting appropriate process and related terms & 
Conditions. During the process of evaluation, applicants may be subject to personal 
interactions, communications for additional details  or verification of the submitted 
data. 
4. HOW to apply: 
4.1. Expression of Interest shall be submitted in the format given in PART-2: FORMAT 
FOR SUBMITTING EOI. 
4.2. The format given in Part-02 shall be filled in with all required information. The format 
along with all supporting documents shall be duly signed and scanned in a pdf file. 
4.3. The applicant agency/individuals must submit following information/documents 
along with their EOI: 
a) Copy of PAN 
b) Copy of AADHAAR 
c) Copy of GSTIN (If registered) 
d) MOBILE NO, E MAIL and Postal Address 
e) Turn over certificate/ITR of FY 2024-25, 2023-24 and 2022-23 
f) Details of a uthorized representative for signing the documents on behalf of 
agency. This is not required for a proprietorship if the owner is applicant. 
4.4. The scanned document in pdf format then should be e -mailed to 
ausipat@ntpc.co.in or hksahu01@ntpc.co.in with subject line “EOI for 
Identifying Prospective buyer for Removal of Brick rejects and debris from 
NTPC Ash Brick Plant”   
4.5. Alternatively, the duly signed documents along with all supporting documents may 
be put into a sealed envelope su per scribing “EOI for Identifying Prospective 
buyer for Removal of Brick rejects and debris from NTPC Ash Brick Plant ” 
and submitted by hand/registered post/speed post at below mentioned address: 
DGM (AUD) 
Office of Ash Utilization, 1st Floor, Sewa Bhawan Stage-I 
NTPC SIPAT, Post Office Ujjwal Nagar, Bilaspur (CG) 495555 
MOB: 7049030462 
For envelope submitted by hand, must get an acknowledgement from AUD office 
with time and date of receipt is marked. 
Page 4 of 7 
 
 
 
4.6. The envelope/e-mail received up to 17:00 Hrs 12/03/2026, shall only be accepted 
and considered valid. If the stipulated date of submission falls on a holiday, then 
the next working date and time shall be considered for recei ving the expressions 
of interest.  
4.7. For any clarification on the EOI document and clarifications on the subject matters, 
following officers may be contacted through E-mail or Mobile: 
Harish Kumar Sahu 
DGM (AUD), Mob: 7049030462, E-mail: hksahu01@ntpc.co.in 
 
  
Page 5 of 7 
 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submitting EOI 
(On official letter head of the Buyer) 
(To be submitted by the interested agencies along with specified documents) 
EOI No: NTPC-Sipat/AUD/2025-26/EOI/003                             Date: 16/02/2026 
 
EOI for Identifying Prospective buyer for Removal of Brick rejects and debris from 
NTPC Ash Brick Plant 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1.  Name of the Agency   
 
 
 
2.  Communication address 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Status (Company / Individual / 
Partnership firm/Proprietary firm)  
4.  Phone no / Mobile no    
5.  PAN No.  
6.  GSTIN No.   
7.  AADHAR No  
8.  E MAIL / WEBSITE  
9.  
Nature of Existing Business of agency, if 
any  
Location and Address of Business, if any 
 
 
 
Annual turnover/Income in:  FY 2024-25 
                                              FY 2023-24 
                                              FY 2022-23 
………………….. 
…………………. 
…………………… 
Page 6 of 7 
 
 
 
10.  
Asset owned by agency: 
(Attach separate sheet with details of 
equipment) 
a) Tractor: ………….Nos 
b) Truck/Tarilers: ……………..Nos 
c) JCB: ……………….. Nos 
d) Excavators : ………..Nos 
 
e) Others if any; 
…………………………………….. 
 
 
 
11.  Desired mode for lifting (strike off 
irrelevant option) 
a) Tractor with trolley   
Or 
b) Hyva/truck with trolley 
Or 
c) ………………………….. 
 (any other) 
12.  Interested in buying Qty in MT (Approx)       ………………. MT 
13.  Proposed off take Qty in terms of Trip  
………Nos of trips of tractor trolley 
OR 
…… Nos of trips of Hyva/truck  
OR 
…… Nos of trips of ……………… 
                 (any other vehicle)  
 
Note: 
1. No of trips shall be calculated 
considering loading up to the top 
level of trolley only 
2. Trolley volume shall be calculated 
as 80% of trolley volume obtained 
by length, width height 
measurement. 
14.  Desired period for lifting 
(a) 3 months 
(b) 6 months 
(c) 12 month 
Page 7 of 7 
 
 
 
(d) …………………… (any other) 
15.  Desired frequency for debris lifting 
…….MT per week/month 
 
…….Trips of tractor  per 
week/month  
 
……Trips of Hyva per 
week/month  
 
……Trips of ……….. (……..any 
other) per week/month  
 
16.  
Whether worked with NTPC previously 
(Yes/No). 
If Yes, vendor code/customer code  
 …………………………(yes/no) 
Vendor Code:  …………….. 
17.  
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents of EOI including 
correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person to sign EOI 
documents  
Designation/Relationship with the firm    
Telephone No/ Mobile No   
18.  
Any other relevant information: 
Separate page/sheet may also be enclosed 
 
The facts mentioned above are true to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
 
For and on behalf of M/s ………….   
Date:  
Place:     Signature:…………………………… 
     (Authorized Representative)  
Name: 
Designation: 