 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
EPC Township Package for Singrauli STPP, Stage-III (2x800MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-1150-364-9 
SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
1 of 4 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
     
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
EPC Township Package for Singrauli STPP, Stage-III (2x800MW) 
 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:  CS-1150-364-9 Date: 19.03.2026 
GePNIC ID: 2026_NTPC_106245_1 
 
1.0  NTPC Limited  invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0       BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope of work outlined here below is indicative and not exhaustive. 
 
This package shall be executed in EPC mode.  
The works shall include: - 
A. Demolition & Disposal of identified structures. 
B. Geotechnical investigations, Topographical survey, Planning, Design, Engineering, 
preparation of drawings, Procurement, Supplying, Construction, Installation, Fabrication 
& Erection, providing all services including water supply, electrifications, firefighting, 
Sanitary etc., Testing & Commissioning of the following facilities (Residential & Non -
Residential buildings, Bulk Services, all works including Civil, Electrical, services, 
Consultancy services etc.) all complete- 
Sl.No. Description No.of 
Blocks/Details 
1 B-Type (Stilt +7) – 56 DUs 1 
2 C-Type (Stilt +7) – 28 DUs 3 
3 D-Type (Stilt +7) – 28 DUs/Block 3 
4 HOD Residence / GM’s Residence with Servant Quarter 4 
5 Bachelor Hostel Suite (Stilt +7) – 48 Units 1 
6 Bachelor Hostel Non- Executive Single (Stilt +7) – 96 
Units 1 
7 Bachelor Hostel Executive (Stilt +3) – 48 Units 1 
8 Trainee Hostel (G+7) 1 
9 Guest House (G+3) 1 
10 School (G+2) 1 
11 Multi-Purpose Hall 1 
12 CISF Barracks (G+3) 1 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
EPC Township Package for Singrauli STPP, Stage-III (2x800MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-1150-364-9 
SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
2 of 4 
 
 
13 Police Barrack (G+1) 1 
14 SHO residence (G+1) 1 
15 Switchgear cum Substation building 1 
16 Substation  2/3 
17 Under Ground Water Tank 1 
18 Gate Complex  1 
19 Roads & Drains with Culverts  
20 Sewerage Systems  
21 Internal Electrification Works  
22 External Electrification Works with Street light  
23 External Water Supply and Horticulture Network  
24 Fire Fighting System  
25 Elevators  
26 Air Conditioning Works- Guest House, MP Hall, Bachelor 
Hostels  
27 Sewage Treatment Plant  
28 Site levelling & Area Development  
29 Landscaping & Horticulture  
30 Parking Sheds, Compound Walls & Fencing  
31 Development of Sunday Market  
32 Consultancy Services  
The facilities indicated above are indicative and may be changed / clubbed during 
construction. 
 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through Domestic/ Own Resources. 
 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule: 
  
Issuance of IFB 19.03.2026 
Documents Download Date and Time From 19.03.2026 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time 02.04.2026 from 1100 hrs (IST) 
For venue refer SECTION - III BDS clause 
no 3.0 
Last Date of receipt of queries from 
prospective bidders 
02.04.2026 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price)  
Up to 1100 hrs (IST) on 20.04.2026 
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
21.04.2026 at 1100 hrs (IST) 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Nil 
Estimated cost of work in INR INR 323.47 Crore (Excluding GST) 
INR 381.70 Crore (Including GST) 
  
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above. 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
EPC Township Package for Singrauli STPP, Stage-III (2x800MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-1150-364-9 
SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
3 of 4 
 
 
 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 5,00,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Five Crores only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -
BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 The Bidder should meet the Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at Annexure-I to IFB.  
 
7.0       Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
 
8.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited under e -tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ using the 
option “online Bidder Enrolment”. The said website also has the detailed guidelines on 
enrolment and participation in the bidding process including Bidder Manual for online fee 
payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
10.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids.  
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class -II Local 
Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
 
11.0    Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
EPC Township Package for Singrauli STPP, Stage-III (2x800MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-1150-364-9 
SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
4 of 4 
 
 
Technology (ToT ) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
  
12.0   Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is 
considered to be qualified. 
 
13.0    Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
14.0  BIDDER’S T O ENSURE THAT  THE TECHNO -COMMERCIAL BID SHOULD NOT 
CONTAIN ANY PRICE CONTENT ENTRY. IN CASE, THE TECHNO-COMMERCIAL BID IS 
FOUND TO CONTAIN ANY PRICE CONTENT, SUCH BID SHALL BE LIABLE FOR 
REJECTION. 
 
15.0 Address for Communication: 
 
Sr. Manager (CS) / AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA   
Pin - 201 301 
 
Tel. No.: 0120 4946551, 4946517 
E-mail: sthareja@ntpc.co.in / anujaron@ntpc.co.in 
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or  
www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or  
www.ntpc.co.in 
 
16.0    Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
           GePNIC Help desk No 09266039394 
 
 
 
Annexure-IA 
 
            
 
Approved Qualifying Requirements for  
EPC Township Package for Singrauli STPP, Stage-III (2x800MW). 
 
In addition to the satisfactory fulfilment of the requirements stipulated under Section ITB 
(Instructions to Bidders), the Bidder should meet the Qualifying Requirements as stipulated 
here under:  
 
1.0 Technical Criteria (Experience of Similar Works): 
 
a) The Bidder should have completed the works as mentioned below, within the 
preceding Seven (07) years reckoned as on the date of Techno commercial Bid 
Opening: 
i) One similar work, costing not less than Rs.258.00 Crores. 
Or 
ii) Two similar works, each costing not less than Rs.161.00 Crores. 
Or 
iii) Three similar works, each costing not less than Rs.129.00 Crores. 
 
Similar work shall mean: 
Construction of RCC Buildings- Residential / Integrated township / Hospitals / Hotels / 
Offices / Colleges / Schools / Shopping Complexes / Malls, having at least one building 
of five (05) or more storeys. The work/works shall include services- Water Supply, 
Sanitary installation, Drainage, Internal Electrical installations, Lift and at least three 
(03) services out of- 
(a)HVAC, (b)Fire detection and alarm System, (c)Fire Fighting system, (d)CCTV, 
(e)EPABX system (equipment as well as cabling and wiring), (f)STP, (g)DG Set and 
(h)Electric Sub-station (equipment as well as testing/commissioning) executed under 
one agreement. 
 
NOTES for Clause “1.0 (a)” above: 
 
1) Bids from Joint Ventures / Consortium and Special Purpose Vehicle shall 
not be accepted. 
2) The Cost of works referred above are excluding GST.  
3) 
 
Each Basement and Stilt constructed in the building shall be considered 
as a Storey. 
4) Mummty, Lift Machine Room, Terrace water tank or any other supporting 
structure above Terrace Level shall not be counted as Storey for the 
stated purpose. 
5) The work completed in the preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on the 
Annexure-IA 
 
date of techno commercial bid opening, even if it has been started earlier, 
will also be considered as meeting the qualifying requirements. 
6) The value of completed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring 
them at current price level by adding 5% for each year on prorata basis 
after the end date of completion/execution of the reference work, till the 
last day of month previous to one in which NIT has been invited. 
7) All services of the proposed similar work should be executed under one 
agreement. 
8) For contracts that include both Construction and Operation & 
Maintenance (O&M), successful completion shall refer to the completion 
of the construction portion of the work to the satisfaction of the client, 
irrespective of the completion of the O&M period. Accordingly, the cost of 
O&M portion shall not be included for evaluation purposes.  
9) Reference work executed by a Bidder as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly 
certified by Project Authority specifying the Scope of Work executed by 
the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
10) In case, the eligible work has been executed by a Joint venture through 
one or more individual firm(s), then cost of completed work shall be 
distributed among the individual firm(s) in proportion to their share in 
Joint venture and that will be considered as work experience for 
individual firm(s) for Pre-qualification in bidding. 
 
2.0      Financial Criteria for Qualification: 
a) The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than INR 107 
Crores (Indian Rupees One Hundred and Seven Crores only). 
 In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above 
on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirement as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the 
last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up 
share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required 
to furnish along with its Techno- Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the 
Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company's Board Resolution, as per the 
format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
b) Net Worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of Bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year.  In case the Bidder meets the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and / or Holding 
Company and / or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable, the Net 
worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and / or Holding Company and / or 
Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 
Annexure-IA 
 
100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However, individually, their 
Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid-up 
share capitals. 
 Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
 Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
c) In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
ii)   A Certificate from the CEO / CFO of the Holding Company, as per   the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company. 
 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable.  In case, Bidder is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO /CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit 
as on the date of Techno–Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.   
 
Notes for clause 2.0 
 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserve. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation.  Further, any debit balance of 
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or 
written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act 2013. 
iv)  For Annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven 
(7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be applicable.  
 
 
 