                                            NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
Supply and Installation of Fully Automatic Brick/Block Machine for NTPC Kanti 
Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900319251 
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” from eligible bidders 
for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope of work comprises of Supply and installation of fully automatic brick/block machine having 
capacity of approx. 25000 ± 1000 per day at NTPC Kanti. The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to 
the supply, erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, 
supply, transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection including 
associated civil and structural works if any. 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Wo rk and Terms & Conditions are given in  the Bidding Documents, which are 
available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per 
the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per etender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per etender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per etender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per etender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per etender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 2,00,000/-  
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of 
receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. Option for 
Online payment of tender fee is also made available at GepNIC/e tender portal. Bidders are requested to please 
avail the facility. 
For details please refer Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD through BG/ST or EMD Exempti on Allowed” Tab is enabled only for the purpose 
of allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of the bank Guarantee. Bidders are advised NOT to 
upload MSE/other document for availing exemption.  
Payment of EMD and Tender fee is not exempted in this tender. Bids without adequate Bid Security and 
Tender fee, as per tender provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of tender fee is to be done only 
through online facility on GePNIC portal. Bid Security/E MD may be paid only thro ugh online payment of bid 
security amount applicable for this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with 
the tender provisions. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank guarantee and also ensure 
that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the address mentioned above before the submission 
deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitt ed online, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, failing which bid 
is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: As applicable 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid an Earnest 
Money Deposit of amount ₹2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakhs only) 
 
c) Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/Performance Security is to be submitted as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee towards Bid 
Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG should only be as per Form-1 specified vide Sec VIII Book 3 of 
3 and EMD BG submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard Format shall be rejected for which NTPC 
shall not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed envelope shall be rejected by the 
Employer as being non-responsive.  
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the stipulated bid submission 
closing date and time at the address given below.  
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security and integrity pact(if applicable) shall be rejected by the 
employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted through electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, Bidder to submit the 
proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
6.0 Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. 
Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated hereunder: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1  Technical Criteria: 
 
7.1.1 The bidder should be a Manuf acturer of fully automatic ash brick manufacturing machine/ Plant. 
 
7.1.2 Bidder should have Supplied, Installed/’got Installed’ & Commissioned/’got Commissioned’ 
, Ash Brick Manufacturing machi ne(s)/ Plant, in the preceding s even (7) years prior to the date 
of techno commercial bid opening ,meeting the following criteria: 
 
 
a) Single order of executed value not less than Rs. 170 Lakhs, 
or 
b) Two (2) orders of executed value not less than Rs.106 Lakhs each, 
or 
c) Three (3) orders of executed value not less than Rs. 85 Lakhs each.  
 
 
Notes for 7.1: 
 
1.  The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder s hould have achieved the criteria 
specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed / closed. 
2.     In case of orders under execution, the value of work exe cuted prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
3.      Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided the 
certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owne r specifying the scope of work 
executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
4.     For arriving at the executed value of work specified abo ve, basic amount only shall be considered. 
In case of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provid e the break –up of basic value and 
taxes. 
5.     In case, bidder has executed reference work under two orders one for supply and one for services 
separately for the same install ation, combined value of both th e orders shall be considered as a 
single order for the purpose of evaluation. 
6.      For compliance of criteria as specified in 7.1.1 & 7.1. 2 above, bidders can submit a single work 
order satisfying both 7.1.1 & 7.1.2 above or separate work orde rs satisfying 7.1.1 & 7.1.2 
respectively 
 
7.2     Financial criteria: 
 
7.2.1   The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, should not b e less than Rs. 142 Lakhs 
(Rupees One Hundred & Forty-Two Lakhs Only) during the preceding three (3) 
completed financial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
7.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteri a, stipulated at Cl. 7.2.1 above 
on its own, its holding company would be required to meet the s tipulated turnover 
requirements at Cl. 7.2.1 above, provided that the net worth of  such holding company 
as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the holding company. In such an event,  the bidder would be 
required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Let ter of Undertaking from 
the holding company, supported by Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in 
the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable finan cial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the bidder in case of award. 
 
7.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited fin ancial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided th e bidder furnishes the followi ng further documents 
on substantiation of its qualification. 
 
 Copies of the unaudited9 unconsolidated financial statements o f the bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of  the Holding 
Company.  
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company as per t he format 
enclosed in the bid documents stating that the unaudited uncons olidated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated annual report of the company. 
 7.2.4 In case where audited results for the last financial yea r as on the date of Techno 
Commercial Bid Opening are not available, the financial results  certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not 
able to submit the Certificate fr om practicing Chartered Accoun tant  certifying its  
financial  parameters,  the  audited  results of three consecut ive financial  years  
preceding  the  last  financial  year  shall  be  considered  f or  evaluating  the  financial 
parameters.  
 
 Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as p er the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under 
audit as on the date  of  Techno-Commercial  Bid  Opening  and  the  Certificate  from  
the  practicing  Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
 
Notes for the Clause 7.2: 
  
1. Other income shall not be co nsidered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
2. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the me aning ascribed to them 
as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital a nd free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and shar e premium account, but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of th e assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amal gamation. Further any debit bala nce of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
 “Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance  Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken /  signed  by  a  Member  of  Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI), whic h Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying 
Requirements  (QR),  will  carry  Unique  Document  Identificat ion  Number  (UDIN) 
generated  in  line  with  the  Gazette  Notification  of  Coun cil  of  Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
8.0 ‘Class-I local suppliers’- are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier (Minimum Local Content equal 
to or more than 60%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form.  By accepting the MLC provision of 
GTE it will be considered that:- 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in Annexure-II to BDS.  
 
Also supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violation of ‘Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII Order) dated 15.06.2017 and its 
subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade 
(DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration and will be dealt in 
line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, will be 
eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with 
an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered 
with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of regi stration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a land 
border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of 
India is engaged in development projects 
 
10.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT without assigning 
any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
11.0 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be qualified. Bids 
shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of Bidder’s representatives who 
choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
12.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
 
13.0 Address for communication: 
 
Sr. Manager/AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chattisgarh - 492018  
Email: harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in / amitksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515293 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
14.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 16-Feb-2026 05:40 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference
Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900319251
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_105232_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online
Bankers
S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf EMD Fee
Details
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Attachment 3
QR
documents
Technical Bid
.pdf
Other
Attachments
of Technical
Bid
.pdf
Last Three
Financial
Years Balance
sheets
3 Finance .xls Price Bid BOQ
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Supply and Installation of Fully Automatic Brick Block Machine for NTPC Kanti
Work Description As per BId doc
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 540 
Location Western Region
Head QuartersII
Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 

Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region
Head QuartersII
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 16-Feb-2026 06:00 PM Bid Opening Date 11-Mar-2026 03:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
17-Feb-2026 09:00 AM Document Download / Sale End
Date
09-Mar-2026 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 17-Feb-2026 09:00 AM Clarification End Date 20-Feb-2026 09:00 AM 
Bid Submission Start Date 20-Feb-2026 09:00 AM Bid Submission End Date 09-Mar-2026 03:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 134.38
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 BOQ BOQ_108463.xls BOQ 318.50
2 Tender Documents BidDoc.rar Bid document 17272.17
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Expected Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the
PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT
requirements of the Tender. - [ MLC Declaration for Services]
Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules - [ SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC - [ FRAUD PREVENTION] Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC - [
BANNING POLICY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
5.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per tender documents on Restrictions
on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India -
[ LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE]
Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements - [ QR COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents - [ NO DEVIATION
CERTIFICATION] Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in Harsh Mamodia Harsh Mamodia
2. vkbhojwani@ntpc.co.in Vikas Kumar Bhojwani Vikas Kumar Bhojwani
3. ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in AJAY SHIVHARE AJAY KUMAR SHIVHARE
4. srikark@ntpc.co.in J.V.R.Srikar Kale KALE JAYA VENU RAGAVA
SRIKAR
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal
places
2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Agree
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name CPG-1
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By Harsh Mamodia
Designation Sr. Manager
Created Date 16-Feb-2026 04:53 PM
 