NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Transportation Logistic Study for Over Dimensional Cargo (ODC) for Great Nicobar Island 
(GNI) Gas based power project 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. CS-6401-714A-9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)  
FOR 
 
Transportation Logistic Study for Over Dimensional Cargo (ODC) for Great Nicobar Island 
(GNI) Gas based power project 
       
Bidding Document No.: CS-6401-714A-9 
 
1. NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding Basis for aforesaid Package, 
as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by shortlisted Bidder from the website 
https://gem.gov.in. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. 
 
3. This NIT is published on Open Tender basis. Bids of the Following consultants/firms will be 
eligible for opening in this tender:  
 
“Subject Tender is floated on Limited Tender (LT) basis and Bids are invited from those 
Vendors/Bidders who have been shortlisted for participation in this tender. Any Other Bidder(s) 
shall not be considered and Bids of such Bidder(s) shall be summarily rejected during Technical 
Evaluation.” 
 
 
4. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
NTPC is establishing a Gas Engine Based Power Plant at Great Nicobar Island (GNI) for 
which equipment needs to be transported from mainland to the island at power plant 
location. 
  
The weight of the heaviest component (Engine) to be transported is 180 MT and the 
proposed route for transportation includes a River portion near the power plant location. 
Scope of work includes Transportation Logistic Study (Route Survey) for ODC 
Consignment. 
 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the Vol-II, Terms of Reference (TOR) 
of Bidding Document. 
 
5. NTPC intends to finance the subject package through a mix of debt and Equity. 
 
6. Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the schedule mentioned at the GeM portal. 
Tentative schedule follow as: 
 
Issuance of IFB  17.02.2026  
Document Download start date  17.02.2026  
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if 
any)  
20.02.2026  
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time  
Upto 24.02.2026 by 15:00 hrs. 
(IST)  
Date & Time for opening of (Techno-
Commercial bid Bid)  
 Upto 24.02.2026 by 15:30 hrs. 
(IST)  
  
  Cost of Bidding Documents in INR  NIL  
 
                
7. Bid security for the subject tender is NIL. 
 
8. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / intending Bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
 
9. 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
10. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
11. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which may be downloaded from e-Tender website (https://gem.gov.in).  
 
12. Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered 
to be qualified. 
 
13. This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted with it are confidential and intended 
solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. You are requested to 
keep all the information confidential and do not disclose them to any other third party, persons 
or firms. 
 
14. Address for communication : 
 
  Sr. Manager (CS)/ DGM(CS) 
           NTPC Limited 
           Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
 e-mail: amitdhiman01@ntpc.co.in  / amitk@ntpc.co.in  
 Contact: +91 8275045115/ 9650991817 
 