DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
Tapovan Vishnugarh HEPP (4 x 130 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-5505-905B-9 
Balance works of SFT lining and Outfall 
PACKAGE SECTION-I (IFB) 
 PAGE 
1 of 3 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Balance works of SFT lining and Outfall  
FOR 
TAPOVAN VISHNUGAD HYDRO ELECTRIC POWER PROJECT (4x130 MW) 
LOCATED IN 
CHAMOLI DISTRICT, STATE OF UTTARAKHAND, INDIA 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:  CS-5505-905B-9 Date: 20.02.2026 
IFB no: 2026_NTPC_105155_1 
1.0 NTPC Limited invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis (Envelope-I: 
Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as 
per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
a) Construction of balance works of concrete lining of Silt Flushing Tunnel (SFT), rectification of SFT
section to accommodate desired lining thickness, construction of SFT outfall and associated
riverbank protection works including supply, placing of tetrapod.
b) Reinforced concrete lining of balance reach SFT, contact and consolidation grouting, for rectification
of excavated SFT- removal/rectification of exiting tunnel support system and installation of new
tunnel support system including grouting, slope stabilization measures, concreting (with or without
reinforcement) in SFT outfall area, drilling & grouting etc. & other associated activities required for
completion of (a) above.
c) The contractor shall provide all labour, supervision, materials, construction equipments,
transportation of all materials to work site, sampling, testing and quality assurance, providing
necessary facilities and equipment to facilitate sampling & testing by Engineer-in-charge.
d) Access road to SFT Adit shall be provided by NTPC; however, the approach to SFT outfall from
existing access road shall be planned, constructed and maintained by the contractor.
e) Haulage roads & other temporary roads including road to disposal area, diversion of existing access
road etc. shall be provided and maintained by the Contractor as per requirement of site.  For detailed
status of works under this package for which bids are now being invited, the Bidders may refer the
bidding documents.
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through mix of debt and equity.
4.0 Detailed specifications, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding documents,
which are available at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website- 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule:
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
Tapovan Vishnugarh HEPP (4 x 130 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-5505-905B-9 
Balance works of SFT lining and Outfall 
PACKAGE SECTION-I (IFB) 
 PAGE 
2 of 3 
Issuance of IFB 20.02.2026 
Documents Download Date and Time From 20.02.2026 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time 09.03.2026 from 1100 hrs (IST),for 
details please refer SECTION - III BDS clause 
no 3.0 
Last Date of receipt of queries from prospective 
bidders 
11.03.2026 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price)  
Up to 1100 hrs (IST) on 23.03.2026 
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & Time 24.03.2026 at 1600 hrs (IST) 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of Techno- 
Commercial Bid. 
Estimated cost of work in INR INR 32.16 Crore (excluding GST) 
INR 37.95 Crore (including GST) 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 50,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Fifty 
lakh only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents. 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN 
CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND 
TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID 
SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
The Bidder should meet the Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at Annexure-I to IFB. 
7.0  Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the right to assess the capabilities and 
capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ group companies to perform the 
contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
8.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim 
arising out of such action. 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. The bidders can enrol 
themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ using the option “online Bidder Enrolment”. 
The said website also has the detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding 
process including Bidder Manual for online fee payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
10.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
Tapovan Vishnugarh HEPP (4 x 130 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: CS-5505-905B-9 
Balance works of SFT lining and Outfall 
PACKAGE SECTION-I (IFB) 
 PAGE 
3 of 3 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids.   
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class-II Local Supplier / 
Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
11.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible 
to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines 
of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
12.0 Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered to be 
qualified. 
13.0    Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
14.0 Address for Communication: 
Sr. Manager (CS) / DGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA
Pin - 201 301
Tel. No.: 0120 4946537, 4948616, 4946577 
E-mail: sonamkumari@ntpc.co.in /amitk@ntpc.co.in
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or
www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or 
www.ntpc.co.in 
15.0    Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
Page 1 of 2 
Annexure-I to IFB 
Approved QR for Tapovan Vishnugad HEPP (4 X 130 MW) 
“Balance Works of Silt Flushing Tunnel and Outfall” package 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the bidder 
should also meet the criteria specified below at Clause 1.0.0 and Clause 2.0.0:  
1.0.0 Technical Criteria: 
The bidder should have executed the cast in-situ concrete lining of a tunnel with 
cumulative progress of not less than 2650 cum in a period of consecutive six (6) 
months in anyone tunnel, within the preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on the 
date of Techno-commercial Bid Opening. 
Notes for 1.0.0 
i) In case of works stipulated under Clause 1.0.0 the word “executed” means that
the bidder should have achieved the specified progress of work, even if the
qualifying work/ total contract is not completed/ closed.
ii) If the qualifying work is completed in the seven (7) years period specified above
even if it has been started earlier, the same will also be considered as meeting the
qualifying requirement.
2.0.0 Financial Criteria for Bidder 
2.1.0 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹19 
Crore (Rupees Nineteen crore only) or in equivalent foreign currency.  
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as 
on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would 
be requested to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging 
unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2.0 The Net worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid-up share capital. In 
case the Bidder does not satisfy the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies, wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding 
Companies, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid 
up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% 
(Seventy-five percentage) of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Page 2 of 2 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
(Seventy-five percentage) of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 
are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.3.0 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company. 
(ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno- 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder 
is not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
its financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results 
of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening 
and the certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial 
parameters is not available. 
Notes for 2.0.0: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free 
reserves. Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and 
share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act, 2013. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on 
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall 
be used. 