NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
Subject: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Polyelectrolyte 
Chemical for Various NTPC Stations Under 10MEG-40 
 
 
A MEG Details  
1 MEG No. 10MEG-40 
2 MEG 
DESCRIPTION 
Supply of Poly Electrolyte Chemicals: 
 
1. Polyelectrolyte - Anionic Polyacrylamide flocculant 
2. Polyelectrolyte – Cationic PolyDADMAC flocculant 
3 RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
CPG-1/ VDC 
4 ENLISTMENT 
CATEGORY 
Category-1 
B TECHNICAL CRITERIA  
QR-1: 
The applicant should be a manufacturer of “at least one” of the polyelectrolyte(s) given at MEG 
DESCRIPTION “A2” above. 
OR 
QR-2: 
The applicant should have supplied “at least one” of the polyelectrolyte(s) given at MEG DESCRIPTION 
“A2” above meeting the spe cifications mentioned at Annexure-I, to any Govt/ Semi - Govt/ PSU/ 
Power/ Process Industry, within last five years from the date of application. 
C Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying Requirements: 
QR-1: 
Valid factory License/ Consent to operate from any Government statutory body such as Pollution 
Control Board/ NSIC registration/ any other valid document as proof of manufacturing with mention 
of any of the following terms: 
Any one of the chemicals at MEG DESCRI PTION “A2” above/ Poly electrolyte / Poly electrolyte 
flocculant/ Polyacrylamide flocculant / Anionic flocculant / PolyDADMAC flocculant / PolyDADMAC / 
Cationic flocculant / Polymer based coagulant / Coagulants / Flocculants. 
OR 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
 
 Valid Udyam registration certificate mentioning name of any one of the chemicals MEG 
DESCRIPTION “A2” above / Chemical NIC (5) code(s) and Activity as Manufacturing against the 
NIC Code. 
AND 
II) An undertaking on the Company letter pad, duly signed/ stamped, of being a manufacturer of 
any one of the chemicals MEG DESCRIPTION “A2” above / Polymer based coagulant / flocculant, 
along with their Works addresses. 
OR 
QR-2: 
Copy of Purchase Order(s),  corresponding Invoice(s)/ completion certificate for supplying “at 
least one” of the Poly Electrolyte chemical(s) given at MEG DESCRIPTION “A2” above to any 
Govt/ Semi - Govt/ PSU/ Power sector or Process industry in the last five years having the 
specification mentioned at Annexure I. 
AND 
II) An undertaking on the Company letter pad, duly signed/ stamped, that the vendor will be able 
to supply at least any one of the chemicals given at MEG DESCRIPTION “A2” above / Cationic 
flocculant / Anionic flocculant / Polymer based coagulant as per the  specification mentioned at 
Annexure-I, along with their Works addresses. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all documents/ facilities can be verified / 
assessed if required. 
D Other Documents to be uploaded: In addition to the documents required in support of Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at B) above, following documents are also required to be uploaded by 
the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three PO’s of the highest executed values (Refer to Note-2 of “E” below) of similar works 
(Refer to Note-1 of “E” below) during last five years from the date of application. Copy 
of Invoice/ Completion certificate from the concerned buyer(s) in support of successful 
execution of supply against the PO’s. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited 
results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification of financial 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
 
 statements from a practicing-chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant 
is not able to submit the certificate from practicing chartered accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audi ted results of the three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial years shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO stating that the 
financial results are under audit as on date of application and certificate from the 
practicing chartered certifying the financial parameters are not available. 
E Note-1 Similar works means: Supply of “at least one ” of chemicals mentioned at MEG 
DESCRIPTION “A2” above as per the specification mentioned at Annexure-I. 
Note-2 The executed value means “Basic value of quantity of similar works supplied against 
the reference PO” (also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application). 
Where PO value is composite (i.e. including Taxes etc.), the applicant to give item‐
wise break‐up of Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value of “any one or more” 
of chemicals mentioned at  MEG DESCRIPTION “A2” above, (as per the specification 
mentioned at Annexure-I) , Taxes etc. 
Note-3 Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
Note-4 For any other Terms & Conditions, Applicants are requested to please refer standard 
Terms & Conditions available at VDC/CPC portal i.e. https://vendor.ntpc.co.in 
Note-5 Technical Specifications are attached as Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Polyelectrolyte 
Chemical for Various NTPC Stations Under 10MEG-40 
 
A. GENERAL: The material shall be as per the requirement mentioned below.  
B. REQUIREMENT: 
1. Specifications of POLYELECTROLYTE (Anionic polyacrylamide  flocculant) - 
M1010637145 
S.N. Characteristics UOM Requirement REMARKS 
a. Appearance ----- Solid, 
granular 
(having 
flocculation 
property) 
To be tested at 
Chemistry lab 
b. pH of 0.1% solution ----- 6.0-8.0 -do- 
c. Particle size mm 0.5-0.8 Manufacturer’s test 
certificate/COA 
d. Acrylic acid content % by wt Min 17 -do- [note (iii)] 
e. Viscosity of 0.5 % 
(w/v) solution 
centipoise 300-600 -do- 
f. Solid Content % by wt Min 88.0 -do- 
g. Water insolubility % by wt Max 0.5 -do- 
h. Bulk Density g/cm3 0.6-0.8 -do- 
 
i. Packing:25-50 Kg HDPE/PVC/Plastic Drums with moisture proof double lining bags. 
ii. Testing Requirement: The party should submit a test certificate on Toxicological test 
for the manufactured POLYELECTROLYTE (Anionic polyacrylamide flocculant) from 
Indian Toxicological Research Centre, Lucknow (presently known as IITR) or any 
other institute / laboratory under CSIR / Govt. of India for Acute Oral Toxicity in 
Rodent (Single Sex) or Sub-Acute Oral Toxicity in Rats (28 days). 
iii. Agency must provide Test report/ certificate for all parameters mentioned at S.no. 
B.1.b to B.1.h from Government lab/ Manufacturer Lab/ NABL accredited Lab, for 
each consignment. 
iv. First two parameters ( B.1.a &  B.1.b) will be tested at NTPC site laboratory for 
material acceptance. 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
 
2. Specifications of POLYELECTROLYTE (Cationic Poly DADMAC flocculant) - M1010638041 
S.N. Characteristics UOM Requirement REMARKS 
a. Appearance ----- Colorless to Pale 
Yellow Liquid 
 
b. Active Component ------ Poly DADMAC  
c. Ionic Charge ------ Cationic Manufacturer’s 
test 
certificate/COA 
d. Solid Active content % by wt Min 40.0 -do- [note (iii)] 
e. Form  Liquid  
 
i. Packing:25-50 Kg HDPE Carbouys. 
ii. Testing Requirement: The chemical should be nontoxic and suitable as coagulant in 
pre-treatment of DM Plant and drinking water process applications. The vendor has 
to submit declaration / certificate regarding non -toxicity of product at the time of 
supply. 
iii. Acceptance of material based on test certificate  for parameters mentioned at S.no. 
B.2.b to B.2.d from Manufacturer Lab/ Government lab/ NABL accredited Lab, along 
with consignment. Physical inspection and weighment will be carried out at NTPC 
station site. 
 