    NTPC LTD 
C
PG-1/VDC 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for Supply of Ultrasonic Level 
Transmitter. 
A MEG Details 
1.0 MEG No. 94MEG-08 
2.0 MEG Description Supply of Ultrasonic Level Transmitter 
3.0 MEG 
Responsibility VDC 
B Technical Criteria of QR:  
1. T
he Applicant should be a Manufacturer of Ultrasonic Level Transmitter.
2. The Applicant should have successfully executed the supply of Ultrasonic Level 
Transmitter during the last five (5) years as on the date of application.
The Ultrasonic Level Transmitter supplied should have been in satisfactory operation 
for at least one (1) year prior to the date of application.
C Documents required in support of meeting QR: 
1. L atest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license /
ISO certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department /
any other statutory document as a proof of being  manufacturer of Ultrasonic Level
Transmitter. Brief details of manufacturing facilities or Standard published
catalogue for Ultrasonic Level Transmitter also to be given.
2. T he PO in support of award and completion certificate/copies of invoice etc. to
establish successful execution of the supply and satisfactory operation of Ultrasonic
Level Transmitter as per QR.
D Documents to be submitted to find executed value of orders: 
In a
ddition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as 
stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants  
applying for enlistment: - 
1. T hree (3) POs of the highest executed values of similar work (see definition at point
E: Note- 1 below) during previous five (5) years from the date of application. Copy
of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of
successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. These will be
required for calculation of execution capability.
 
 
 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three (3) 
completed financial year’s reckoned from the date of application. In case where the 
audited results for the last financial years as on the date of application are not 
available, the financial result certified by a practicing Chartered accountant shall be 
considered acceptable. 
 
3. GSTIN certificate ,PAN ,Power of attorney, Letter of undertaking ,works 
information etc. as mentioned in enlistment application pages of website 
www.vendor.ntpc.co.in 
 
4. NTPC can request for other documents as necessary during the course of evaluation. 
 
 
E 
 
NOTE-1 
 
Similar works means: Supply of Ultrasonic Level / Ultrasonic flow 
Transmitter. 
 
  
 
 NOTE-2 
 
The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works 
executed/supplied against the reference PO (also  applicable to partly 
executed POs as on date of application). Where  PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Taxes etc.), the applicant to give item -wise 
break-up of Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 