NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/VDC 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for Supply of Microprocessor Based 
Electronic Positioners. 
A MEG 
Details 
1.0 MEG No. 94MEG-05A 
2.0 MEG Description Supply of Microprocessor Based Electronic Positioners 
3.0 MEG Responsibility VDC 
B Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. a. The Applicant should be a Manufacturer of Microprocessor Based
 Electronic Positioners. 
 OR 
b. Applicant should be Group Company or Subsidiary company of the
Holding Company who is a Manufacturer of Microprocessor Based
Electronic Positioners.
2. The Applicant should have successfully executed the supply of Microprocessor
Based Electronic Positioners during the last five (5) years as on the date of
application.
The Microprocessor Based Electronic Positioners supplied should have been in
operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date of application.
C Documents required in support of meeting QR: 
1. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license /
ISO certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department /
any other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of Microprocessor
Based Electronic Positioners in support of Clause 1. a. of Technical Criteria. Brief
details of manufacturing facilities or Standard published catalogue for
Microprocessor Based Electronic Positioners also to be given.
2. The PO in support of award and completion certificate/copies of invoice to
establish successful execution of the supply and operation of Microprocessor
Based Electronic Positioners as per QR.
3. Applicant has to submit relevant documents in support of Clause 1. b. of
Technical Criteria.
 
D 
 
Documents to be submitted to find executed value of orders:  
 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements 
as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants 
applying for enlistment: - 
 
1. Three (3) POs of the highest executed values of similar work (see definition at 
point E: Note- 1 below) during previous five (5) years from the date of 
application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s 
in support of successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
These will be required for calculation of execution capability.  
 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three (3) 
completed financial year’s reckoned from the date of application. In case where 
the audited results for the last financial years as on the date of application are not 
available, the financial result certified by a practicing Chartered accountant shall 
be considered acceptable. 
 
3. GSTIN certificate ,PAN ,Power of attorney, Letter of undertaking ,works 
information etc. as mentioned in enlistment application pages of website 
www.vendor.ntpc.co.in 
 
4. NTPC can request for other documents as necessary during the course of 
evaluation. 
 
 
E 
 
NOTE-1 
 
Similar works means: Supply of Positioners or E/P or I/P convertors. 
 
  
 
 NOTE-2 
 
The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works 
executed/supplied against the reference PO (also applicable to partly 
executed POs as on date of application). Where PO value is composite 
(i.e. including Taxes etc.), the applicant to give item-wise break-up of 
Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 