Page 1 of 3 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of “Spares for Clinker Grinder/ Slag crusher” 
 
(Startup vendors are also allowed in this group for enlistment) 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 56MEG-03 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Spares for Clinker Grinder/ Slag crusher 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR (for applicants other than startups): 
 
Applicant has to meet either option-1 or option-2 
 
Option-1 
i) The applicant should be a manufacturer of complete Clinker Grinder/ Slag Crusher assembly 
 
ii) The applicant should have the willingness to develop drawings from Samples of spares of clinker 
grinder/slag crusher along with identification of materials composition of the spares. 
 
Option-2 
1) The applicant should have manufactured & supplied Major Spares of Clinker Grinders/slag crushers i.e. 
Rolls & Liners 
 
2) The applicant should have the willingness to develop drawings from Samples of spares of clinker 
grinder/slag crusher along with identification of materials composition of the spares. 
 
Qualifying Requirement for startup applicants only: 
Applicant should be start up manufacturer of Mechanical Fabrication Items. 
C) Other Documents to be submitted (for applicants other than startups): In addition to the documents 
required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, following documents are required 
to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the date of 
application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful 
execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then 
certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof 
of being manufacturer of the required material. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
Note-1 - Similar works means: Supply of Complete Clinker Grinder/ Complete Slag Crusher assembly to any 
thermal power plants  or Supply of Grinder Rolls  for Clinker Grinders/ Slag crushers to any thermal power 
plants 
Note-2 - The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against the 
reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Where PO value is 
composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO value 
mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
Page 2 of 3 
 
D) (A) Conditions for Startup applicants only (not applicable for applicants other than startups): 
(i) The company should be certified as ‘Start Up; by Inter -Ministerial Board of Certification as constituted by 
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion from time to time. 
 
(ii) The Company product (Mechanical Fabrication Items) should have been tested and cleared from 
a Govt. approved third party laboratory as per applicable standards (IS/IEC etc .). 
 
(iii) The factory set up shall be inspected by NTPC for checking the suitability for taking up manufacturing of the 
product by start up, before declaring it qualified. Inspection requirement shall not be waived off.  
 
(iv) The product shall be manufactured only in an Indian Manufacturing facilities / works.  
 
(v) No Turnover requirement shall be specified. 
 
(vi) In case of placement of Purchase Order, Start up Contractor shall furnish performance guarantee for an 
amount of 10% of the ex -works cost of the equipment(s) in addition to the contract performance guarantee to 
be submitted by the contractor. 
 
(B) Other requirements / conditions for Startup applicants: 
1. The startup applicant should upload in the “QR Documents” tab of the  Technical Parts of  online application the  
following:- 
Credential documents in support of conditions (A-i) & (A-ii) as above  
+ the Qualifying Requirement stipulated for them in the previous page. 
 
If proper documents as mentioned above are not given by the applicant, their application may not be considered any 
further. 
 
2. In the “Technical Information” part of the online application, they are not required to upload any Purchase Order (PO) 
/ PO Execution proof as required for other type of applicants. In the “PO” tab and “Supporting Invoices / Completion 
Certificate” tabs they can upload a page mentioning the following “application from startup applicant, hence this is not 
applicable.” 
 
3. In the “Financial Information” part of the application they are not required to upload any “Profit & Loss” + “Balance 
Sheet”. In this tabs hey can upload a page mentioning the following “application from startup applicant, hence this is 
not applicable.”  
 
4. On application submission by the startup applicant it will be implied that they agree to the conditions given at A-iii, A-
iv & A-vi as above. 
 
5. In case of issue of tender enquiry after enlistment the startup applicants should agree to all terms & conditions  given 
in the said tenders from NTPC sites / plant / offices.  
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 56MEG-03 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Spares for Clinker Grinder/ Slag crusher 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Specifications: 
 
i) The specifications of the major components shall be either as per the drawings in the tender 
or 
 
the same has to be developed by the vendor along with material specification from samples/ equipment 
at site. 
 