NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Crusher Hammers (Cast) 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 55MEC-06 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Crusher Hammers (Cast) 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR:  
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of Manganese Steel Cast Crusher Hammers for Ring Granulators 
as per IS:276 or  material as specified  in the Technical Specification. 
2. The applicant should have its own Heat Treatment facility.   
3. The applicant should have testing facilities including Spectrometer as required in NTPC Standard Quality 
Plan attached with the Technical Specification. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C) Other Documents to be submitted: In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants 
applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the date of 
application. Copy of  Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then 
certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof 
of being manufacturer of the required material. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
D) NOTE-1 Similar works means: Supply of Cast Hammers each  of  minimum 12 Kg Mass to Thermal Power 
Plants or CHP main package Contractors or OEM of Ring Granulators in last 5 years from the date 
of application for enlistment 
 NOTE-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against the 
reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Where PO value is 
composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO 
value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Crusher Hammers (Cast) 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 55MEC-06 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Crusher Hammers (Cast) 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Specifications:  
As per attached Annexure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


