                                NTPC LTD 
                                        CPG-1/VDC Raipur 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for Supply of HT Power (Above 
11 kV & up to 33 kV) (Al) XLPE Insulated FRLS Cables 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG DESCRIPTION HT POWER CABLES (Above 11 kV   Power cables & upto 
33 kV ) 
 2.0 MEG RESPONSEBILITY VDC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR:  
        The bidder should have manufactured and supplied during last five years from the date         
         of application. 
 
 
a) Atleast one (1) km of 19/33 kV or above XLPE Insulated Power cables. 
b)   Atleast one (1) km of Flame retardant low smoke (FRLS) cables of any voltage grade. 
C) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D) 
Documents required in support of meeting QR : 
 
1. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO 
certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other 
statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the HT power cables. Brief details of 
manufacturing facilities or Standard published catalogue for HT power cables also to be given. 
 
2. The PO in support of award and completion certificate/copies of invoice to establish successful 
execution of the supply of HT power cables as per QR.  
 
Documents to be submitted to find executed value of orders :  
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical  requirements as stated above, 
following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
 
1. Three (3) POs of the highest executed values of similar work (see definition at point E:Note- 1  
  below) during previous five (5) years from the date of application. Copy of Invoice /     
  Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of  
  supply against the POs to be submitted. These will be required for calculation of execution  
  capability.  
 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three (3) completed 
financial year’s reckoned from the date of application. In case where the audited results for the last 
financial years as on the date of application are not available, the financial result certified by a 
practicing Chartered accountant shall be considered acceptable. 
 
3.GSTIN certificate ,PAN ,Power of attorney, Letter of undertaking ,works information etc. as 
mentioned in enlistment application pages of website www.vendor.ntpc.co.in 
 
4. NTPC can request for other documents as necessary during the course of evaluation. 
 
 
E) 
 
NOTE-1 
 
Similar works means: "Supply of 19/33 kV or above Power Cables. 
 
 NOTE-2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied 
against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of 
application).Where PO value is composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give 
item-wise break-up of Composite PO  value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION – VI, PART-B 
BID DOC NO. : CS- 
SUB-SECTION B-19 
HT POWER CABLES 
PAGE 
1 OF 7 
 
 
1.00.00 CODES  & STANDARDS 
1.01.00 All standards, specifications and codes of practice referred to herein shall be the latest 
editions including all applicable official   amendments and revisions as on date of opening of 
bid. In case of conflict between this specification and those (IS: codes, standards, etc.) 
referred to herein, the former shall prevail. All the cables shall conform to the requirements of 
the following standards  and codes : 
IS:7098 (Part -II) Specification for Cross linked polyethylene insulated PVC 
sheathed cables. Part-II: For working voltages from 3.3 KV upto 
and including 33 KV. 
 
IS : 3975 Low Carbon Galvanized steel wires, formed wires and tapes for 
armouring of cables. 
 
IS : 4905 Methods for random sampling. 
 
IS : 5831 PVC insulation and sheath of electrical cables. 
 
IS : 8130 Conductors for insulated electrical cables and flexible cords.  
 
IS : 10418 Specification for drums for electric cables. 
 
IS : 10810 Methods of tests for cables. 
 
ASTM-D -2843 Standard test method for density of smoke from the burning or 
decomposition of plastics. 
 
IEC-754 (Part-I) Tests on gases evolved during combustion of electric cables. 
IEC-332 Tests on electric cables under fire conditions. Part-3: Tests on 
bunched wires or cables (Category-B). 
2.00.00 TECHNICAL  REQUIREMENTS 
2.01.00 The cables shall be suitable for laying on racks, in ducts, trenches, conduits and under 
ground (buried) installation with chances of flooding by water. 
2.02.00 All cables including EPR cables shall be flame retardant, low smoke (FRLS) type designed to 
withstand all mechanical, electrical and thermal stresses developed under steady state and 
transient operating conditions as specified elsewhere in this specification. 
2.03.00 Aluminium conductor used in power cables shall have tensile strength of more than 100 N/ 
sq.mm. Conductors shall be multi stranded. 
2.04.00 XLPE insulation shall be suitable for continuous conductor temperature of 90 deg. C and 
short circuit conductor temperature of 250 deg C. 
2.05.00 The cable cores shall be laid up with fillers between the cores wherever necessary. It shall 
not stick to insulation and inner sheath. All the cables, other than single core unarmoured 
cables, shall have distinct extruded PVC inner sheath of black colour as per IS: 5831. 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION – VI, PART-B 
BID DOC NO. : CS- 
SUB-SECTION B-19 
HT POWER CABLES 
PAGE 
2 OF 7 
 
2.06.00 For single core armoured cables, armouring shall be of aluminium wires. For multicore 
armoured cables armouring shall be of galvanized steel as follows : - 
Calculated nominal dia of cable under 
armour 
 
 Size  and Type of armour 
i) Upto 13 mm 1.4mm dia GS wire 
ii) Above 13 & upto 25mm 0.8 mm thick GS formed wire / 1.6 mm dia 
GS wire 
iii) Above 25 & upto 40 mm 0.8mm thick GS formed wire / 2.0mm dia 
GS wire 
iv) Above 40 & upto 55mm 1.4 mm thick GS formed wire/2.5mm dia GS 
wire 
v) Above 55 & upto 70mm 1.4 mm thick GS formed wire/3.15mm dia 
GS wire 
vi)
  
Above 70mm 1.4 mm thick GS formed wire / 4.0 mm dia 
GS wire 
2.06.01 The aluminium used for armouring shall be of H4 grade as per IS: 8130 with maximum 
resistivity of 0.028264 ohm-sq.mm/mtr at 20 deg.C. The types and sizes of aluminium 
armouring shall be same as mentioned for galvanized steel at 2.06.00 above.   
2.06.02 The gap between armour wires / formed wires shall not exceed one armour wire / formed 
wire space and there shall be no cross over / over-riding of armour wires / formed wires. The 
minimum area of coverage of armouring shall be 90%. The breaking load of armour joint 
shall not be less than 95% of that of armour wire / formed wire. Zinc rich paint shall be 
applied on armour joint surface of GS wires/formed wires. 
2.07.00 Distinct extruded PVC inner sheath of black colour as per IS:5831 shall be provided for the 
cables as follows: 
a).   For all multicore cables.                                                                                                      
b).   For single core armoured cables, where armouring is not being used as metallic 
screen. 
2.08.00 Outer sheath shall be of PVC black in colour. In addition to meeting all the requirements of 
Indian standards referred to, outer sheath of all the cables shall have the following FRLS 
properties. 
(a.) Oxygen index of min. 29 (Test method as per IS 10810 Part-58) 
(b.) Acid gas emission of max. 20%  as per IEC-754 (Part-I) 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION – VI, PART-B 
BID DOC NO. : CS- 
SUB-SECTION B-19 
HT POWER CABLES 
PAGE 
3 OF 7 
 
(c.) Smoke density rating shall not be more than 60% during Smoke Density Test as per 
ASTMD-2843. 
2.09.00 Cores of three core cables shall be identified by colouring of insulation or by providing 
coloured tapes helically over the cores, with Red, Yellow & Blue colours. 
2.10.00 In addition to manufacturer's identification on cables as per IS, following marking shall also 
be provided over outer  sheath : 
(a.) Cable size and voltage  grade - To be embossed 
(b.) Word 'FRLS' at every 5 metre - To be embossed 
(c.) Screen Fault current _ _ _KA  for _ _ _ Sec. ( Value of current & time shall                  
be indicated) 
(d.) Sequential marking of length of the cable in metres at every one metre 
- To be embossed / printed 
The embossing / printing shall be progressive, automatic, in line and marking shall be legible 
and indelible. For EPR cables identification shall be printed on outer sheath. 
2.11.00 All cables shall meet the fire resistance requirement as per Category-B of IEC-332 Part-3.     
2.12.00 Allowable tolerances on the overall diameter of the cables shall be +\-2 mm maximum over 
the declared value in the technical data sheets. 
2.13.00 In plant repairs to the cables shall not be accepted. Pimples, fish eye, blow holes etc. are not 
acceptable. 
2.14.00 The cross-sectional area of the metallic screen strip/tape/wires shall be considered in sizing 
calculations. 
2.15.00 The eccentricity shall be calculated as    
tmax -tmin 
------------ x 100 
t max 
and the ovality shall be calculated as 
dmax -dmin 
------------ x 100 
d max 
 
Where t-max/t-min is the maximum/minimum thickness of insulation and d-max/d-min is the 
maximum / minimum diameter of the core.  
The eccentricity of the core shall not exceed 10% and ovality not to exceed 2% . 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION – VI, PART-B 
BID DOC NO. : CS- 
SUB-SECTION B-19 
HT POWER CABLES 
PAGE 
4 OF 7 
 
2.16.00  Cable  selection & sizing 
 
2.16.01  HT cables shall be sized based on the following considerations: 
 
 a) Rated current of the equipment 
 
 b) The voltage drop in the cable, during motor starting condition, shall be limited to 10% 
and during full load running condition, shall be limited to 3% of the rated voltage 
 
 c) Short circuit withstand capability 
 
2.16.02   Derating Factors 
 
 Derating factors for various conditions of installations including the following shall be 
considered while selecting the cable sizes: 
 
 a) Variation in ambient temperature for cables laid in air 
 
 b) Grouping of cables 
 
 c) Variation in ground temperature and soil resistivity for buried cables. 
 
2.16.03  Cable lengths shall be considered in such a way that straight through cable joints is avoided. 
 
2.16.04  All Cables shall be of armoured type. 
 
3.00.00 CONSTRUCTIONAL FEATURES 
3.01.00 19/33 KV Grade Power Cables: 
3.02.00 Cables shall conform to IS 7098 Part-II. These cables shall be multi-stranded, compacted 
circular aluminium conductor, XLPE-insulated, metallic screened PVC outer sheathed. The 
conductor screen and insulation screen shall both be of extruded semiconducting compound 
and shall be applied along with the XLPE insulation in a single operation of triple extrusion 
process so as to obtain continuously smooth interfaces.  Method of curing for 19/33 KV 
Cables shall be “dry curing / gas curing “. The metallic screen for each core shall be capable 
of carrying the system earth fault current and shall consist of copper wires or tape with 
minimum overlap of 20%. However, for single core armoured cables, the armouring shall 
constitute the metallic part of the screening.  
3.03.00 11/11KV, 6.6/6.6KV  Grade Power Cables: 
 Cables shall conform to IS-7098 Part-II. These cables shall be multi-stranded, compacted 
circular aluminium conductor, XLPE-insulated, metallic screened, PVC outer sheathed. The 
conductor screen and insulation screen shall both be of extruded semiconducting compound 
and shall be applied along with the XLPE insulation in a single operation of triple extrusion 
process so as to obtain continuously smooth interfaces.  Method of curing shall be “dry 
curing / gas curing / steam curing “. The metallic screen for each core shall be capable of 
carrying the system earth fault current and shall consist of copper wires or tape with 
minimum overlap of 20%. However, for single core armoured cables, the armouring shall 
constitute the metallic part of the screening . 
   
3.02.00 3.3/3.3kV Grade Power Cables: 
  
 Cables shall conform to IS: 7098 Part - II. These cables shall be multi- stranded, compacted 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION – VI, PART-B 
BID DOC NO. : CS- 
SUB-SECTION B-19 
HT POWER CABLES 
PAGE 
5 OF 7 
 
  circular aluminium conductor, XLPE insulated, metallic screened, PVC outer sheathed.    
The metallic screen of each core shall consist of copper wires or tape with minimum overlap 
of 20%. However, for single core armoured cables, the armouring shall constitute the metallic 
part of the screening. The metallic screen of each core shall be capable of carrying the 
system earth fault current Method of curing for cables shall be "dry curing / gas curing / 
steam curing".  
 
3.03.00 Trailing cables shall have tinned copper (class 5) conductor, insulated with heat resistant 
elastomeric compound based on Ethylene Propyline Rubber (EPR) suitable for withstanding 
90 deg.C continuous conductor temperature and 250deg C during short circuit, inner-
sheathed with heat resistant elastomeric compound, nylon cord reinforced, outer-sheathed 
with heat resistant, oil resistant and flame retardant heavy duty elastomeric compound 
conforming to IS 9968. 
 
4.00.00 CABLE DRUMS 
4.01.01 Cables shall be supplied in non returnable steel drums of heavy construction. The drum shall 
be designed on the basis of weight, diameter, bending radius and length of cable. The 
surface of the drum and the outer most cable layer shall be covered with water proof cover. 
Both the ends of the cables shall be properly sealed with heat shrinkable PVC/ rubber caps 
secured by 'U' nails so as to eliminate ingress of water during transportation, storage and 
erection.  
4.01.02 Each drum shall carry manufacturer's name, purchaser’s name, address and contract 
number, item number and type, size and length of cable and net gross weight stenciled on 
both sides of the drum. A tag containing same information shall be attached to the leading 
end of the cable. An arrow and suitable accompanying wording shall be marked on one end 
of the reel indicating the direction in which it should be rolled. 
4.01.03 The standard drum length for HT power cables with a maximum tolerance of +/- 5%, may be 
decided by the bidder subject to condition that there shall not be any joint in cable, where 
application length of cable is up to & including 1000 meter for single core cable, and 750 
meter for multicore cable. One drum length of each cable size can be of non-standard length 
(not less than 250 meter) so as to match the ordered quantity Subject to condition that there 
shall not be any joint in cable 
5.00.00  TYPE, ROUTINE AND ACCEPTANCE TESTS  
 
a) The contractor shall carry out the type tests as listed in this specification on the 
equipment to be supplied under this contract. The bidder shall indicate the charges 
for each of these type tests separately in the relevant schedule of Section - VII- 
(Forms & Procedures) and the same shall be considered for the evaluation of the 
bids. 
 
The type tests charges shall be paid only for the test(s) actually conducted 
successfully under this contract and upon certification by the employer’s engineer. 
 
b) The type tests shall be carried out in presence of the employer’s representative, for 
which minimum 15 days notice shall be given by the contractor. The contractor shall 
obtain the employer’s approval for the type test procedure before conducting the type 
test. The type test procedure shall clearly specify the test set–up, instruments to be 
used, procedure, acceptance norms, recording of different parameters, interval of 
recording, precautions to be taken etc. for the type test(s) to be carried out. 
 
c) In case the contractor has conducted such specified type test(s) within last ten years 
as on the date of bid opening, he may submit during detailed engineering the type 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION – VI, PART-B 
BID DOC NO. : CS- 
SUB-SECTION B-19 
HT POWER CABLES 
PAGE 
6 OF 7 
 
test reports to the owner for waiver of conductance of such type test(s). These 
reports should be for the tests conducted on the equipment similar to those proposed 
to be supplied under this contract and test(s) should have been either conducted at 
an independent laboratory or should have been witnessed by a client. The owner 
reserves the right to waive conducting of any or all the specified type test(s) under 
this contract. In case type tests are waived, the type test charges shall not be 
payable to the contractor. 
 
d) All acceptance and routine tests as per the specification and relevant standards shall 
be carried out. Charges for these shall be deemed to be included in the equipment 
price  
 
e) The type test reports once approved for any projects shall be treated as reference. 
For subsequent projects of NTPC, an endorsement sheet will be furnished by the 
manufacturer confirming similarity and “No design Change”. Minor changes if any 
shall be highlighted on the endorsement sheet. 
All types and sizes of cables being supplied shall be subjected to type tests, routine tests and 
acceptance tests as specified below and according to relevant standards. 
5.01.00 The following type tests shall be carried out on one size each of 19/33kV, 11/11KV, 
6.6/6.6KV and 3.3/3.3KV cables. Size shall be decided by the employer during detailed 
engineering 
S. No Type Test Remarks 
 Conductor  
1.  Resistance test  
 For Armour Wires / Formed Wires  
2. Measurement of Dimensions   
3. Tensile Test  
4.  Elongation test  
5. Torsion test  For round wires only 
6.  Wrapping test  
7.  Resistance test  
8(a)  Mass & uniformity of Zinc Coating   
tests 
For GS wires/formed wires only. 
8(b)  Adhesion test For  GS wires/formed wires only 
 For XLPE insulation & PVC Sheath  
9. Test for thickness  
10.  Tensile strength and  elongation test 
before ageing and after ageing 
 
11. Ageing in air oven   
CLAUSE NO. 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
 
PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION – VI, PART-B 
BID DOC NO. : CS- 
SUB-SECTION B-19 
HT POWER CABLES 
PAGE 
7 OF 7 
 
S. No Type Test Remarks 
12. Loss of mass test For PVC outer sheath only. 
13. Hot deformation test  For PVC outer sheath only. 
14. Heat shock test                                       For PVC outer sheath only 
15. Shrinkage test  
16. Thermal stability test  For PVC outer sheath only 
17. Hot set test                                          For XLPE insulation only 
18.  Water  absorption test For XLPE insulation only 
19. Oxygen index test For  PVC outer sheath only 
20. Smoke density test For PVC outer sheath only 
21. Acid gas generation test  For PVC outer sheath only 
22 Flammability test as per IEC-332  
Part-3 (Category -B) 
For completed cable only 
5.02.00 The following type tests shall be carried out on each type (voltage grade) & size of the cable: 
S. No. Type Test For all cables 
1.  Insulation resistance test (Volume Resistivity method) 
2.  High voltage test  
For cables of 19/33kV, 11/11KV & 6.6/6.6KV Grade only.  
3.  Partial discharge test 
4.  Bending test         
5.  Dielectric power factor test  
 a) As a function of voltage 
 b) As a function of temperature 
6.  Heating cycle test 
7.  Impulse withstand test 
 
Indicative list of tests/ checks, Routine and Acceptance tests shall be as per Quality 
Assurance & Inspection table of H.T. Cables enclosed. 








