 
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1 CEG No.   BMD-21 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Phased Array Ultrasonic Testing (PAUT) of Weld Joints of Boiler Tubes 
3 Responsibility Centre CPC 
4 Brief scope of work Phased Array Ultrasonic Testing (PAUT) of Weld Joints of Boiler Tubes: 
1. Phased Array Ultrasonic testing for circumferential old weld joint 
inspection of boiler tubes (Waterwall, Superheater, Reheater, Economiser & 
other tubes, as identified by EIC) is to be carried out for assessment of the 
weld joints. For water wall tubes, covered by insulation, only portion of weld 
on fireside will be tested with probes/wedges dismantled from the scanner.  
2. Agency to quote for each weld joint to be inspected. For mobilisation 
during overhaul, there would be minimum payment for inspection of 500 
joints and additional payment would be made for inspection of additional weld 
joints beyond 500 joints.  
3. No ex tra payment will be made for tube sample calibration, testing of 
reference tubes or inspection on any other tube pieces (on sample basis) with 
known defects for verification of reliability of test set up  
4. For reliability of calibration, 2% of the test r esults of PAUT in each type of 
tube dimension and thickness will be cross checked by NTPC thru 
radiography. If any defect is observed in radiography and same is not 
observed in PAUT M/C, calibration & test set up of PAUT M/C are needed to 
be rechecked and PAUT to be repeated. However, defect noticed in PAUT but 
not detected in radiography will be treated as defect.  
5. Test System: For PAUT inspection of boiler tubes, service provider agency 
will bring the PAUT equipment & accessories with following or higher 
capability:  
(i) PAUT equipment: 16:68 or higher configuration, having  
(a) Weld inspection features including setting up of weld profile  
(b) Multi grouping capability  
(c) Capability of using two UTPA probes simultaneously. Necessary 
adapter/splitter (if required) for attaching two probes for simultaneously 
working should be available for inspection.  
(e) Operation with battery (f) A-scan, B-Scan, C-scan, S- Scan, Linear scan, 
Sectorial scan  (g) Calibration: Velocity, Wedge Delay, Sensitivity, TCG, 
DAC, Encoder calibration features (h) Data analysis and report building  (i) 
Encoder recognition  
Probes: At least two numbers of low profile suitable PAUT probes for (MS 
and Alloy Steel) of 7.5-10 MHz frequency, 16- 32 element with more than 2 
meters of cable length. The probes shall have couplant supply mechanism for 
passage of couplant (water to be used in this case) to test sur face. A water 
irrigation channel along with water storage container & pressure mechanism 
for providing continuous couplant (water) to the probe during testing. Suitable 
probe for SS will be required for inspection of SS Joints.  
(ii) Wedges: Specially desi gned wedges to fit in the above probes and having 
refractive angle of 50 to 60- degree shear wave in steel. Wedges should have 
suitable contour to fit with around 25-100 mm outer diameter tubes.  
(iii) Scanner: A manual/automated scanner capable for scanning of around 25-
100 mm outer diameters tubes. The scanner shall have encoder with it for 
precise data acquisition. The scanner shall be able to hold two low profile 
phased array probes and wedges, as mentioned above, for complete inspection 
of the weld in o ne rotation of the scanner. The design of scanner, probe & 
wedges shall allow complete inspection of circumferential weld on tube 
having gap of more than 15 mm with any adjacent tubes, supports and 
structures etc.  
6. Manpower/Machine: Inspection/service provider agency shall depute two 
persons with minimum UT Level- 2 qualification/certification from PCN, 
CSWIP, ASNT, ISNT. Also at least one person should have sufficient training 
(at least 7 days) in PAUT for operation, data analysis and interpretation of 
signal/data acquired. The necessary document/certificate for above to be 
produced to station.  Also, vendor must have two sets of PA UT equipment & 
accessories of minimum 16:64 configuration PAUT equipment with encoder 
assisted scanner, curved wedges (as per OD of tube) and focused probes and 
analysis software.  
7. Test plan: 
(a) The agency shall submit the written inspection procedure for PAUT of 
boiler tube weld joints. Scan plan (linear/sectorial) shall cover the entire 
volume of the weld for inspection an d should mention parameters, like 
thickness, OD, Index offset, weld profile, probe, wedge, scan angles etc. 
There shall be minimum one sectorial scan for one probe. Total minimum two 
groups for two probes, positioned at 90 & 270 degree. Angle step shall be 0.5 
degree.  
(b) Calibration: velocity, wedge delay, sensitivity, TCG, encoder calibration 
shall be performed before inspection.  
Reference block: Tubes with similar diameter & wall thickness (within 10%) 
and circumferential notches/grooves (detailed belo w) shall be used as 
reference block. The Reference block should have length not less than 200 
mm. It should have two circumferential grooves/notches (one each on ID & 
OD) having depth of 10% wall thickness, 1 to 1.5 mm width and length 
between 25 to 50 mm. These two grooves should be located at opposite ends 
of the tube. The notches should be separated from adjacent tube edge by about 
50 mm. The length of reference block and location of reflectors 
(notches/grooves) should comply the requirement of calibrati on for angle 
beams. Agency to take tube samples in advance so that M/C Calibration work 
can be completed before start of overhauling work. Samples to be returned 
back to NTPC and to be kept in safe custody by NTPC for future reference.  
(c) Data storage: The calibration data and inspection data should be stored in 
the equipment and should be available for verification to NTPC Personnel. 
Inspection data file is to be stored by giving identifiable marking for reporting 
& interpretation. Soft copy of all the data to be provided to NTPC.  
(d) Test Results : The test results for each tested tube should provide 
information on type of defects (like Lack of penetration, porosity, Lack of 
Fusion etc.), their location, length, height, depth etc. The final report with 
above information to be given in an excel sheet along with PAUT inspection 
data file & images for all the tested tubes.  
8. Surface preparation & access to test area: NTPC will provide suitable 
arrangement (scaffolding etc.) for safe access to test location s. Also surface 
cleaning /buffing on weld regions of tube, lighting (hand lamps etc. as 
required) would be within the scope of NTPC.  
9. Representatives of NTPC will be allowed to check the test set- up, examine 
the test procedure and the results.  
10. Agency will have to abide all the safety regulations of NTPC without any 
exception and any noncompliance stipulated damage will be deducted as per 
safety rules and regulations of NTPC. 
Other details of works shall be given in tender document. 
2.  Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
The Applicant must have executed the job of  Phased Array Ultrasonic 
Testing (PAUT) of at least 500 number of boiler tube welds in Single Work 
Order in thermal power plant during last five years from the date of 
application. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support  of 
meeting QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement and other certificate/documents as mentioned elsewhere 
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC 
BASIS 
CEG No. BMD-21 
6 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are required to 
be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
i . Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during 
previous five years from the date of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the concerned client in 
support of successful execution of work against each of the POs to 
besubmitted. 
i i . Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. Incase, 
the audited documents are not ready/available, then certified copy of 
financial statement by a registered practicing chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
i i i . NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate 
i v . PF and GST/Service Tax registration certificate 
v . Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants 
tosubmit. 
7 NOTES: 1.0 Similar work means: Phased Array Ultrasonic Testing (PAUT) of BOILER 
TUBES in thermal power plant 
2.0 Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-up of composite PO 
value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Executed value of contracts shall 
include escalation amount because of price adjustment, if any, in thecontract. 
 