 
Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for ‘Structural fabrication & erection 
works in CHP (Category 1, CHP-10)’ 
 
A CEG Details   
  CEG No. CHP-10 
  CEG 
DESCRIPTION 
Structural fabrication & erection works in CHP  
  RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
CPG-1/ VDC 
B TECHNICAL CRIETERIA: 
The applicant should have executed the work of Steel ‘Fabrication and/or Erection’ of not 
less than 100 MT in a single contract of any industry within the preceding last five (5) years 
from the date of application. The work should include chute ‘fabrication and /or erection’ or 
‘replacement of chute’. 
C Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at B) above 
 
QR-1:  Proof of work order/PO of 100 MT steel fabrication work, which include chute 
‘fabrication and /or erection’ or ‘replacement of chute’ within the preceding last five (5) years 
from the date of application. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
 
D Other Documents to be uploaded:  In addition to the documents required in support of 
Qualifying Requirements as stated at (B ) above, following documents are also required to 
be uploaded by the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar works  during previous five 
years from the date of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the 
concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against the POs to 
be submitted.  
 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss stat ement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited 
documents are not ready / available, then certified copy by a registered practicing 
Chartered accountant may be submitted.  
 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate. 
 
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate. 
 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all documents/ facilities can be 
verified/ assessed if required. 
 
E Similar Works Similar work means the applicant should have executed the work (s) of 
Steel ‘Fabrication and/or Erection’ in any industry within the preceding 
last five (5) years from the date of application.  
 
F BRIEF SCOPE 
OF WORK 
a). Fabrication, Erection/replacement & repair of CHP conveyor chute 
mother plates, Liner plates, skirtboards, deflector plates and Flap gates. 
b). Fabrication, replacement & repair of conveyor support items such as 
short supports, stringer channel, seal plates, deck sheets & conveyor 
walkways. 
c). Fabrication, Erection/replacement & repair of Coal Bunker grills & 
Track hopper grills. 
d). Fabrication, Erection/replacement & repair of ventilation system/ 
Ducts, Tramp iron ducts. 
e). Fabrication, replacement & repair of TP staircase steps, approach 
platforms and other safety related miscellaneous structural fabrication 
works for Coal Handling plants.  
 
G Quality Plan (if 
Applicable) 
Not applicable 
H Category of 
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 