 1 
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR OVERHAULING OF STEAM TURBINES   ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No. TMD-13  
2 Name of CEG Capital Overhauling/Overhauling of Steam Turbines of rated capacity 
600 MW or below of barrel type/ stationery blades fitted directly into 
casing  
3 Responsibility Centre CPC 
4 Indicative scope of work : 
Technical Specifications for Capital Overhauling/overhauling  of Steam Turbines of rated 
capacity 600 MW or below of barrel type/ stationery blades fitted directly into casing  i.e. 
KWU design, etc.  
A. To carryout Capital Overhauling of Steam Turbine and associated equipment i.e. All 
Turbine/HP/IP/LP Module/Cylinder, Turbine Stop/Control valves, LP Bypass stop/Control 
valves, CRH NRV’s, Extraction NRV,s, Main steam/Hot Reheat Strainers with in the 
stipulated time (Barring to  Barring). The scope includes, to carry out; 
• Dismantling, Assembly of Module/Cylinder, components as per required procedure. Check 
healthiness of steam path components and check/set/ensure required steam path 
clearances. 
• Dismantling, assembly of Main steam piping/Casing Breach nut joint or any special joint. 
• Dismantling and reassembly of all miscellaneous piping e.g. Gland steam supply, leak-off,  
drains etc. , 
• Dismantling, Inspection, Assembly of Bearings. Check/correct necessary matching of 
bearing support/contact areas and ensure proper clearances during fitment. 
• Dismantling, Inspection and Assembly of Stop/control valves. Check/correct necessary 
matching of stem to seating area and ensure proper oil/key clearances during fitment. 
Ensure proper fitment of oil catcher/oil guards with required clearances. 
• Necessary checks on various keys, inspect, clean/replace, set at required  clearances 
• Necessary checks on various U/I/Angle seal rings. Ensure healthiness and Measure  pre-
compression values/dimensions as per requirement. 
• Dismantling/assembly of casing parting plane fasteners using induction heating  
Equipment, directly or through associate 
• Dismantling, Inspection, Assembly of Main Oil Pump/Governor  as per required procedure,. 
Replace necessary components e.g. bearings/Wear rings/shaft etc.  
• Dismantling, Inspection, assembly of Barring gear assembly 
• Inspection/replacement of Compensator/Bellows  
• Roll check ,bump check, float check  as per required procedure. 
• Radial/facial run out, swing  check and necessary face corrections for removing high points, 
 2 
Convexity, concavity etc.  
• Module/rotor/casing replacement as per procedure 
• Babbit healthiness check, DPT (Dye Penetrant test),MPI (Magnetic particle Inspection) 
check of various components and  NFT (Natural Frequency Test) of  LP Turbine blading 
directly or through reputed associates 
• Coupled Run out, Decoupling,  Free Run out, MOP-HP-IP-LP, LP-Generator alignment.   
• Catenary checking/correction through shims under deck springs, directly or through 
associates  
• Dismantling, Inspection, Assembly of Strainers.  
• Necessary weld repair work of Turbine components  
• Alumina cleaning of steam path components 
• Slow speed balancing either directly or through reputed associates 
• Necessary Rotor gland/seal segments refining at site 
• In-situ blade replacements directly or through reputed associates 
• Coupling bolt reaming/Honing directly or through associate 
• Detailed of Scope of work and T&C shall be as per tender enquiry 
B. Tools, Tackles and Fixtures: The service provider should have required tools/tackles, 
fixtures for carrying out jobs as above and for meeting the requirement of complete all 
cylinders at a time. Service provider is required to submit the list.  
C. Material Supply: Turbine spares/components are within scope of NTPC. All 
consumables shall be within scope of Service provider. 
D.  Terms and conditions 
• The work should be completed in 30 days (Barring to Barring)-indicative.  
• Expected Workmanship quality : The workmanship quality has to be such that either the 
vibrations are less than or equal to expected values observed in pre-overhaul survey. No 
rework should take place, on account of workmanship, with in the period specified in Site 
contract. 
• Experience of BHE L, KWU/Siemens, LMZ/Power Machines, Ansaldo, MHI, GEC, GE ,ABB, 
Alstom, Alstom/Parson, Power Machines, Skoda  Make/Design steam turbines shall only be 
considered. 
• Service provider should have on its rolls, sufficiently experienced Graduate/ Diploma 
mechanical engineers, at least 4  numbers, so that 2 each can be posted  for  site in 
charge/supervision  on 24x7 basis. 
• Skilled manpower; Service provider should have sufficient Millwright fitters on its rolls, so 
that 8 can be posted at each site for craftsmanship.   
• For works executed outside NTPC, Service provider should produce work completion  
certificate from Turbine Manufacturer/OEM/SEB/Utility/Company for satisfactory 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  
Technical 
Qualifying 
Requirements   
 
completion of work having completed in scheduled overhauling 
period. 
• For cases of overhauls executed in NTPC, Internal feedback 
shall also be considered. 
 
 
Technical Qualifying requirements for Capital 
Overhauling/Overhauling of Steam Turbines of rated capacity 
600 MW or below of barrel type/ stationery blades fitted 
directly into casing: 
 
Option “A” for Steam Turbine OEM/OES/OED 
Applicants :-  
 
The applicant should be an OEM (Original equipment 
Manufacturer) of Turbines of 200 MW or higher capacity units 
of Thermal Power plants  
 
Or  
The applicant should be an Original equipment Designer of 
Turbines of 200 MW or higher capacity units of Thermal Power 
plants and should have collaboration agreement with any OEM 
of such machines 
 
Or  
 
The applicant should have supplied, erected & commissioned 
Turbines of 200 MW or higher capacity units of Thermal Power 
plants 
 
Option –“B” for Other Applicants (Other than 
those type given at option A) 
 
The bidder should have carried out, at least five (5) overhauls for Steam 
Turbines (barrel type KWU design or stationery blade fitted directly 
into casing of design/make (as per the ‘Note’ below), of capacity 200 
MW or h igher (with at least 2 cylinders at a time) during any three 
consecutive years during the period within the last four years from the 
date of submission of application. 
 
Note for Option “B”:- 
 
a. Experience of only BHEL, LMZ/Power Machines, KWU/Siemens, 
Ansaldo, MHI, GEC, GE, ABB, Alstom, Skoda Make/Design steam 
turbines either in India or abroad shall be considered. 
  
b. Experience of capacity up gradation through cylinder 
modification at site shall also be counted equivalent to experience 
towards overhauling for respective categories. 
 
c. The three consecutive years shall be cluster of first three years 
or last three years within last four years period from date of submission 
of application. For example if a vendor submits application on 25th 
September,2018 the last four years period shall be 26th September,2014 
to 25th September,2018. The clusters of three consecutive years shall 
be 1st cluster (26th Sept,2014 to 25th September,2017) & 2nd 
cluster(26th Sept,2015 to 25th September,2018). 
 
Document to be 
submitted by 
Vendor in support of 
meeting QR 
1. Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms 
and conditions, BOQ, and Client’s Completion Certificates for the works 
executed. 
2. Filled up format (Form – A)mentioning  details of credenti al  to be 
attached 
6. 
Guidelines for 
finding the executed 
value of the POs 
submitted by the 
applicants 
(Three highest 
executed values 
shall be considered) 
 
i. Executed value means “ The combined executed value from all 
BOQs of the similar work or the lump- sum amount (if there is no BOQ) 
of the similar work executed by the applicant.” 
 
ii. Similar work definition for execution capability 
 
For Option-A applicants 
 
“Work of Overhauling or Supply or Erection and Commissioning of 
Steam Turbine/Turbo Generator” 
 
For Option- B applicants 
 
Similar work means “The work of (overhauling) or (Erection and 
commissioning) of Steam Turbine/Turbo Generator of capacity 60 MW 
or more executed within last five years from date of submission of 
application ”. 
 
iii. In case of single /composite POs involving overhauling/erection and 
commissioning of Boiler, Turbine and Generator, the executed value 
from boiler and its auxiliaries overhauling/erection shall not be 
considered. 
iv. Executed values of similar work involving works of TG auxiliaries 
and capacity up gradation, if any, executed within the PO shall be 
considered. 
v. Material values supplied, if any, within the similar work shall be 
considered as executed values if total material value supplied is equal 
to or less than 20% of overall executed value. If the material value is 
more, than total material value shall not be considered as executed 
value. 
 
 
 4 
vi. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant 
has to give break -up of composite PO value mentioning 
basic value, taxes etc. Any separate re -imbursement/ 
escalation shall not be considered. 
 
7 Documents to be submitted : 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated 
above, following document s are required to be submitted by the applicants applying for 
enlistment:- 
a. Audited balance sheets including Profit & Loss statements for the previous three completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
b. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate, if any. 
c. PF and GST registration certificates. 
d. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
8 Special Terms and Conditions: 
A. Evaluation Criteria: (As per QR) 
               No. of capital overhauls specifying cylinders (HP/IP/LP), Make, design, MW Rating, 
Type (Having stationery blades directly fitted into cas ing or stationery blades fitted in 
Diaphragms), P.O. Copies and Work completion certificates, Capacity up gradation , 
Annual Turn over etc 
B. Work completion certificates issued from Turbine Manufacturer/OEM/SEB/Utility/  
Employer Company should mention that “ The job has been completed successfully” 
OR “There is no adverse report on execution of work ” for the specific PO for which 
work completion issued. Separate certificate issued by above authorities specifying 
the quality of work shall also be accepted. If r equired, NTPC may seek 
clarification/feedback from the employer/utility related to credential of the 
applicant/service provider. 
C. The job carried out as mentioned in QR within a specific period means that the job 
must have been started and completed within the period for overhauling of turbines. 
In case of erection of complete turbine, the date of start of job may be earlier to the 
beginning date of period under consideration but the erection must be complete on 
or before last date of period. 
D. The bidder should have carried out the erection of turbine means that the unit has 
been synchronized to the grid. (First time synchronization shall also be considered as 
erection) 
E. PF document is mandatory for enlistment. 
F.  No fee is required to be paid for enlistment. No off line application would be 
entertained by NTPC. 
G. In the process of vendor enlistment, NTPC may seek additional information/ 
clarification and vendor must be ready to furnish promptly any such information, so 
asked for. 
H. Any contractor currently under BIFR  or banned / blacklisted on Pan NTPC basis shall 
not be considered for enlistment. However, such vendors may be considered for 
enlistment only after expiry of the banning / blacklisting period. If any vendor is 
debarred / banned in participating any tender originating from any particular station/ 
region of NTPC shall continue to remain debarred/banned for that station/ region 
even after enlistment on PAN NTPC basis, till expiry of period or else banning order is 
revoked by concerned station/ region. 
I. The cut off date for submission of completed application as mentioned in this 
 5 
notification only for the purpose to commence first cycle of evaluation only. Vendors 
intending to get themselves enlisted within the first cycle need to apply online within 
this cutoff date. Application submitted after this date will not be considered for 
enlistment in the first cycle.  
J. In case, during evaluation of credentials, if any additional or relevant documents is 
required by NTPC, the same should be furnished by uploading in webs ite/e-mail 
attaching scanned copy of documents duly signed & stamped by the authorized 
person. 
K. Vendors shall be enlisted for three years from the date of uploading of list on 
website, subject to fulfillment of the terms & conditions. 
L. Interested vendors may  open the website (www.vendor.ntpc.co.in) and register 
themselves for enlistment by filling registration form online. System generated e-mail 
shall be sent to the vendor giving ID & password for authentication & activation. It is 
required that the photocopies of the original documents of the relevant credentials 
shall be self attested by the authorized signatory with company seal, scanned and 
uploaded in “PDF form” as per the instructions shown on the page.  
M. Vendor has to send hard copy of following documen ts in original, in the format given 
on the home page of website so as to reach at Central Procurement Cell , EOC, NTPC 
Ltd, Noida- U P ,  PIN: 201301.  
i. Letter of Undertaking (to be executed on non-judicial stamp paper of Rs. 100/-)  
ii.  Power of Attorney (to be executed on non- judicial stamp paper of Rs. 100/ -)                       
Original Letter of Undertaking and Power of Attorney duly signed are to be sent by 
speed / registered post/ courier on stipulated address so as to reach within fifteen 
days of submitting the application. Without receipt of original Letter of Undertaking & 
Power of Attorney, the applicant shall not be considered for enlistment. 
N. For enlisted vendors, at any given point of time, maximum four orders of the works 
under the same CEG can be awarded on pan NTPC basis. This clause may be reviewed 
by NTPC depending on site feedback. 
O. The enlisted contractor shall only be given the award based on evaluation of the bids. 
Generally subcontracting of the work will not be permitted for this CEG awarded 
package except exceptional cases as per site specific requirements. However, 100% 
back to back subcontracting will not be allowed in any case. If any subcontractor is 
found executing the contract awarded to the enlisted contractor without approval of 
NTPC, action against the main contractor will be taken for withholding/ banning of 
business dealings as per NTPC Policy. 
P. Enlistment done on pan NTPC basis through this NIA will supersede the enlistment 
done at site/region. 
Q. NTPC reserves that right to ca ncel this enlistment at any time with prior notice to 
enlisted contractors.  
R. For any clarification /update the applicants may contact the following executives of 
CPC  
(i) Sh U A Panigrahi, AGM          Ph No: 0120-2410257  Mob No: 9650995781 
(ii) Sh D K Sarraf,   AGM              Ph No: 0120-2410867  Mob No: 9650997043 
 
 
 
 
FORMAT-A 
NAME OF APPLICANT ORGANISATION:                                                                    Date:  __________________     
NAME OF CEG: Capital Overhauling/Overhauling of Steam Turbines of rated capacity 600 MW or below of barrel type/ stationery blades fitted directly into casing  
G No: TMD-13, Cycle Of Application For Enlistment: C-            , Date of submission of Application:_______________ 
QR : The bidder should have carried out, at least five (5) overhauls for Steam Turbines (barrel type KWU design or stationery blade fitted directly into casing of 
design/make (as per the ‘Note’ below ), of capacity 200 MW or higher (with at least 2 cylinders at a time) during any three consecutive years during the period 
within the last four years from the date of submission of application. 
 Note: a. Experience of only BHEL, LMZ/Power Machines, KWU/Siemens, Ansaldo, MHI, GEC, GE, ABB, Alstom, Skoda Make/Design steam turbines either in 
India or abroad shall be considered.  
b. Experience of capacity up gradation through cylinder modification at site shall also be counted equivalent to experience towards overhauling for respective 
categories.  
c. The three consecutive years shall be cluster of first three years or last three years within last four years period from date of submission of application. For 
example if a vendor submits application on 25th September,2018 the last four years period shall be 26th September,2014 to 25th September,2018. The clusters 
of three consecutive years shall be 1st cluster (26th Sept,2014 to 25th September,2017) & 2nd cluster(26th Sept,2015 to 25th September,2018). 
 
Sl 
No 
Financial 
agency? 
year 
PO 
No. 
PO 
Date 
Station, 
Unit No 
MW 
Rating 
Design , 
OEM/Make 
Duration of 
overhauling 
(Baring to Baring) 
Type of 
stationery 
blading 
Scope of 
Turbine 
Overhaul 
(i.e. 
specify HP, 
IP/MP,LP, 
or All 
cylinders) 
Awarding 
Agency 
P.O. of 
awarding 
Agency  
enclosed 
Yes/No 
Completion 
certificate 
of awarding 
agency 
enclosed? 
(Y/N) 
Executed 
Value 
(INR) 
Remarks 
Start 
date  
End 
date 
1                
2                
3                
4                
5                
 
Signature of Authorised Representative/Power of Attorney Holder  
Name:                                                                          Designation:                                                                                      Stamp of Farm 