 
 
NTPC LTD 
Corporate Operation Services, EOC, Noida 
Vendor Enlistment for O&M Works Package on PAN NTPC Basis 
 
1 CEG No EMD: 03 
2 Name of the package Rewinding of HT Motors 
3 Responsibility Centre  SR-HQ 
4 Brief Scope of Work 1. Rewinding of HT Motors at Vendor’s Works. 
2. Inspection, Repair, Rewinding of HT Motors. 
3. Conducting required test of HT Motor before and after assembly 
4. Other details shall be given in subsequent tender documents 
5 Technical Qualifying 
Requirements 
1. The applicant should have executed d irectly under end user PSU or its 
joint venture company / Govt. or semi Govt. Department/ power utilities, 
rewinding of at least Five (05) Nos. of HT Motors (3.3KV or above 
rating) motors in last five years from the date of application for 
enlistment.   
2. Applicants must possess facilities for routine electrical testing of HT  
Motors at their works for Carrying out PDI 
6 Documents to be 
submitted in support 
of technical QR 
a) Relevant PO copy of rewinding of at least five (05) nos. of HT (3.3kV min) 
motors under end-user or under ‘PSU’ or its Joint Venture Company / Govt. 
or Semi-Govt. department/power utilities during the last five (5) Years from 
the date of application for enlistment and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA 
bill/Final Deviation Statement for the same. 
b) Certificates issued by Chartered account/ asset register etc. in support of In-
house Facilities of electrical testing of HT motor at their works for carrying 
out during PDI. 
7 Additional documents 
to be submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be 
submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment: - 
a) Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during 
previous five y ears from the date of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/ final deviation statement from the concerned client in 
support of successful execution of jobs against each of the POs to be 
submitted. 
b) Audited balance sheet including Profit  & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case 
the audited documents are not ready / available, then certified copy by a 
registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
c) NSIC / SSI / MSME/ESIC registration certificate (if applicable) 
d)  PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
e) Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to 
submit 
8 Notes a) Similar work means: Rewinding of HT Motors of 3.3 KV  or above rating 
during last 5 years under end- user or under ‘PSU’ or its Joint Venture 
Company / Govt. or Semi-Govt. department.  
b) Value means basic value (excluding taxes) of the P.O. pertaining to 
executed similar work as mentioned vide Note -1 above. Where P.O. value is 
composite, the applicant should have to give break-up of Composite PO value 
mentioning Basic Value, taxes etc. 
 