                              NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
SUPPLY, INSTALLATION, TESTING AND COMMISSIONING (SITC) OF 
INTEGRATED AUTOMATED AUGER SYSTEM AT NTPC LARA STPP 
 
       Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900319897                          
     
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” 
from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned 
hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK  
The scope of work comprises of  
 
SUPPLY, INSTALLATION, TESTING AND COMMISSIONING (SITC) OF 
INTEGRATED AUTOMATED AUGER SYSTEM AT NTPC LARA STPP  
The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, erection, testing and 
inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, 
transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection 
including associated civil and structural works if any. 
NTPC intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Pre-bid Conference As per e-tender portal. 
 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time As per e-tender portal. 
 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 5,00,000/-  
Tender Fee NIL 
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above.” 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
documents. Option for Online payment of EMD is made available at GepNIC/e tender portal. 
Bidders are requested to please avail the facility. 
For details, please refer to Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD Exemption Allowed” as “NO” and “BG Required” as “Yes” 
Tabs are enabled for the purpose of allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of 
the bank Guarantee if online EMD is not opted. Bidders are advised NOT to upload 
MSE/other document for availing exemption. Payment of EMD and Tender fee is not 
exempted in this tender. Bids without adequate Bid Security and Tender fee, as per 
tender provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting bid security is enabled. Bid Security/EMD may be paid only 
through online payment of bid security amount applicable for this tender OR through Bank 
Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the tender provisions. 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e-BG 
through NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e-BG, due to some practical difficulties or 
constraints, physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG as bid security, if opted for, 
should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for 
communication (Clause-13 hereunder) before the bid submission deadline in physical 
form and scanned copy of BG must be uploaded in the FEE folder in the tendering portal. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank 
guarantee and also ensure that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the 
address mentioned above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 
15, failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: NIL 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid, 
an Earnest Money Deposit of amount ₹ 5,00,000/- (Rs. Five Lakh only) 
 
c) Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/Performance Security is to be submitted as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee 
towards Bid Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding 
Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG should only be as per Form-1 specified 
vide Sec VII Book 3 of 3 and EMD BG submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard 
Format shall be rejected for which NTPC shall not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed envelope shall 
be rejected by the Employer as being non-responsive. 
 
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the 
stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given below.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY AND INTEGRITY 
PACT(If applicable) SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted as E-BG/ electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, 
Bidder to submit the copy of E-BG/proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed 
envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to 
provide GSTIN number.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS.  
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: 
 
 
7.1.0 Technical Criteria: 
7.1.1 Route-I :- 
Bidder should have Designed, ‘Manufactured/ got Manufactured’, ‘Supplied/ 
Supplied (on rental/ Supply and operate basis)’, ‘Erected/ Supervised Erection’ and 
‘Commissioned/ Supervised Commissioning’ of atleast one (1) no. Coal Auger 
Sampler/ Machine/ package/ system with coal preparation size of 12.5mm or lower, 
which should be in successful operation for a period not less than One(1) year as on 
the date of Techno Commercial Bid opening. 
 
7.1.2 Route-II :- 
i) Bidder should have ‘Supplied/ Supplied (on rental/built and operate basis)’, 
‘Erected/ Supervised Erection’ and ‘Commissioned/ Supervised Commissioning’ of 
atleast one no. Auger Coal Sampler/Machine which should be in successful 
operation for a period of not less than one(1) year as on the date of techno-
commercial bid opening. 
ii) The Bidder should have valid Technical collaboration agreement / Technology 
Transfer agreement including license to manufacture and supply of Coal Auger 
Sampler/Machine with a Coal Auger Sampler/ Machine/ package/ system 
manufacturer meeting requirements of clause 7.1.1. 
 
In such case, the Bidder shall furnish a deed of joint undertaking (DJU executed by 
them and the Auger Package/system/machine/sampler manufacturer meeting 
requirements of clause 7.1.1, in which the executants of DJU shall be jointly and 
severally liable to the Employer for successful performance of contract as per format 
enclosed in bidding documents. The deed of joint undertaking shall be submitted 
along with techno-commercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, and 
his bid shall be rejected. 
 
In case of award, the Auger Package/ system/ machine/ sampler manufacturer 
meeting requirements of clause 7.1.1, will be required to furnish an on-demand bank 
guarantee for an amount of 1% of the total contract price of the Auger Package in 
addition to the contract performance security to be furnished by the Bidder. 
 
7.1.3 Route-III:- 
 
(i) A Holding Company, singularly or collectively along with its Subsidiaries (held 
either directly or indirectly), meeting the requirements of clause 7.1.1 above, 
shall also be considered Qualified. However, in such a case the Holding 
Company shall maintain a minimum equity of 51% in the Subsidiary Company 
for a lock in period of 7 years from the date of incorporation of such Subsidiary 
Company or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract whichever 
is later. 
 
(ii) In such a case, the Holding Company and all such subsidiaries lending 
strength / experience to the Holding Company shall necessarily be part of the 
DJU being submitted by the Bidder for successful performance of the contract 
as per format enclosed in bidding documents. 
 
In case of award, if the Holding Company itself is not the Bidder, the Holding 
Company and all such entities lending strength /experience to the Holding Company 
shall each be required to furnish separate on demand bank guarantees for an 
amount aggregating 1.0% of the total contract price of the Auger system Package 
divided equally among them, in addition to the contract performance security to be 
furnished by the Bidder. 
 
However, in case the Holding Company itself is the Bidder, Bidder shall submit its 
board resolution stating that in case of any likely change of management control of 
any of these subsidiaries, the bidder shall arrange for separate, on demand Bank 
guarantees from all such entities lending strength /experience to the Holding 
Company for fulfilment of the requirement of clause 7.1.1 for an amount aggregating 
1.0% of the total contract price of the Auger System Vendor divided equally among 
them before the change in management control actually occurs. 
 
As an alternative to the requirements of Note 7.1.3 (ii) above, the Holding Company, 
shall necessarily be part of the DJU to be submitted by the Bidder for successful 
performance of the contract as per format enclosed in bidding documents. However, 
the Bidder shall submit a board resolution of the Holding Company stating that in 
case of any likely change of management control of any of these subsidiaries, the 
Holding Company shall arrange for signing of DJU by all such subsidiaries lending 
strength / experience to the Holding Company for fulfilment of requirement of clause 
7.1.1, in line with the requirements of Note 7.1.3(ii) above before the change in 
management control actually occurs. 
 
Notes for Technical Criteria: 
 
1. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified 
by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in 
support of qualifying requirements. 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date 
of Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
3. In case, bidder has executed reference work under two orders, one for supply 
and one for services separately for the same installation, combined value of 
both the orders shall be considered as a single order for the purpose of 
evaluation. 
 
 
7.2.0 Financial Criteria: 
7.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, shall not be less than Rs. 281 Lakh 
(Rupees Two crore Eighty-one Lakh Only)  during the preceding three (3) 
completed financial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
7.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital 
of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish 
along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
7.2.3 The Net Worth of the bidder shall not be less than 100% of the bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder meets the 
requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its holding companies wherever applicable, the Net 
Worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 
100% of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should 
not be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of their 
respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
 
7.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the Holding 
Company. 
 
7.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year  as on the date of 
Techno- commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by 
a practicing Chartered Accountant  shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating 
the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results of 
the company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and 
the certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
 
Notes for Clause 7.2 above: 
 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the 
extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
 
8 ‘Class-I local suppliers’’- are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of 
the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier (Minimum 
Local Content equal to or more than 50%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid 
Form.  By accepting the MLC provision of GTE it will be considered that: 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in 
Annexure-II to BDS.  
 
Also, supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for 
violation of ‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII 
Order) dated 15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by 
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration 
and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
9 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines 
of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
10 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall 
have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
11 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to 
be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the 
presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
12 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible.  
 
13 Address for communication: 
 
DGM/AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chhattisgarh - 492018  
Email: cpsingh@ntpc.co.in /amitksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515455 /8004948166 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
14 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 


