NTPC Limited 
Vendor Development Cell, CPG-1, Nava Raipur 
Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for 
Mechanical Maintenance of Water/slurry/sewage treatment 
Systems 
A CEG Details  
 CEG No. OFF-08 (Category 1) 
 CEG 
DESCRIPTION 
Mechanical Maintenance of Water/slurry/sewage treatment 
Systems 
 AREA OF WORK 
(Refer  scope of 
work) 
Water Treatment Plant comprising of PT Plant, DM Plant, RO plant, 
UF plant, Mixed bed area, ClO2 plant/Chlorination Plant, CW 
Chemical Treatment Plant, LWTP, Effluent Treatment Plant, Coal 
Slurry settling pit, Sewage Treatment Plant, Compressed air system, 
CPU regeneration plant, ZLD system, township maintenance works, 
and any other Offsite area related to water/slurry/sewage treatment. 
 
Rubber Lining /FRP coating Works in Acid & Alkali Handling Tanks 
& Pipelines. 
 RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
CPG-1/ VDC 
 ENLISTMENT 
PROCESS 
1) Subject enlistment is for enlistment of vendors for the work of 
Mechanical Maintenance in Water treatment plant comprising of 
(a) PT Plant, DM Plant, RO plant, UF plant, Mixed bed area, ClO2 
plant/Chlorination Plant, CW Chemical Treatment Plant, 
LWTP, Effluent Treatment Plant, Coal Slurry settling pit, 
Sewage Treatment Plant, Compressed air system, CPU 
regeneration plant, ZLD system, township maintenance 
works, and any other Offsite area related to 
water/slurry/sewage treatment. 
(b) Rubber Lining /FRP coating Works in Acid & Alkali Handling 
Tanks & Pipelines 
(Also Refer Scope of work) 
 
2) At the time of enlistment, applicant should submit undertaking in 
the attached format that the work of ‘repair/complete replacement 
of minimum 3.5 mm thick rubber lining of tanks/vessels/pipelines’ 
shall be executed by himself or his sub- 
contractor who meets the requirement mentioned under Sl no. 
2.2 of Scope of work. 
 
  3) Applicants who meet QR criteria at Sl. No. ‘B’ and submit 
undertaking for rubber lining works in attached format shall only 
be enlisted. 
 
4) Enlisted vendors as per their execution capability (EC) will be 
issued tender enquiries for station specific packages. The scope 
of work of these tenders will generally comprise as detailed in 
scope of work under the station specific tender(s). (Refer Sl no. 
2.1 and 2.2 of Scope of Work). 
 
5) After award of work of station specific package, the successful 
contractor will be required to submit the credentials in respect of 
criteria to be met by contractor or by his proposed sub- contractor 
as per provisions of Sl. No. 2.2 of Scope of Work (Refer Scope of 
work) regarding rubber lining works, as mentioned below: 
 
Quote 
1) The work of ‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm 
thick rubber lining of tanks/vessels/pipelines’ shall be executed 
by agency himself or by his sub-contractor who meets the 
following requirement: 
 
The applicant / his Sub-contractor should have executed work 
of ‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm thick 
rubber lining of tanks/vessels/pipelines’. 
 
2) The approval for execution of work by the agency himself or his 
Sub-contractor will be subjected to approval of EIC based on 
submission of relevant documents issued by Client (Relevant 
PO copy and client’s completion certificate/RA bill/Final 
deviation statement) to establish aforesaid criterion. All 
submitted documents shall be TPIA/ISA certified. 
Unquote 
B TECHNICAL CRITERIA OF QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT(QR): 
B.1 The applicant should have executed the work (as per B.1.1 / B.1.2) in 500MW or 
above capacity power plant as under: 
 B.1.1 Mechanical Maintenance works of one year or more, in preceding 05(five) years 
from the date of application, which includes any of the following: 
(i) De Mineralized (DM) Plant / Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant 
(ii) Boiler and/or its auxiliaries 
(iii) Turbine and/or its auxiliaries 
OR 
B.1.2 Erection & commissioning works which includes any of the following: 
(i) De Mineralized (DM) Plant / Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant 
(ii) Boiler and/or its auxiliaries 
(iii) Turbine and/or its auxiliaries 
 
NOTES: 
(i) The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the applicant should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
(ii) Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by 
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements. 
(iii) Applicant shall submit an Undertaking in the attached format that the work of 
‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm thick rubber lining of 
tanks/vessels/pipelines’ shall be executed by himself or his sub-contractor who 
meets the requirement detailed under Sl no. 2.2 of Scope of Work. 
C Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying Requirements 
as stated at B) above: 
Relevant PO copy and client’s completion certificate/RA bill/Final deviation statement. 
D Other Documents to be uploaded: In addition to the documents required in support of 
Qualifying Requirements as stated at C) above, following documents are also required to 
be uploaded by the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
 1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar works. Copy of completion 
certificate/RA bill from the concerned client in support of successful execution of 
works against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the 
audited result for the preceding financial year is not available, certification of 
financial statements from a practicing-chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In 
case, applicant is not able to submit the certificate from practicing chartered 
accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of the three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial years shall be considered 
for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as on date of 
application and certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters are not available. 
3. In case the applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
applicant can be considered acceptable provided the applicant further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the applicant 
along with copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
(b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
Note: 
(i) Maximum Three Credential Order(s) / Similar Work(s) shall be considered for 
calculation of the EC. 
 (ii) “All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the STC available at VDC 
portal  https://vdc.ntpc.co.in’. 
NTPC may ask for more / shortfall documents, if any. 
E Note-1 Similar works means: Criterion mentioned at Sl. No. B above 
 Note-2 (a)Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e., including taxes etc.), the applicant has to give 
break up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. 
F QUALITY PLAN  
(IF APPLICABLE) 
Rubber lining works 
G Category of  
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-1 
H SCOPE OF WORK  
 
1.0 SCOPE OF WORK 
 
Scope of the work covers Mechanical Maintenance of 
Water/slurry/sewage treatment Systems (as applicable). 
2.0 Detailed Scope of Work: 
 
2.1 Area of work (as applicable) – Water Treatment Plant 
comprising of PT Plant, DM Plant, RO plant, UF plant, Mixed bed 
area, ClO2 plant/Chlorination Plant, CW Chemical Treatment 
Plant, LWTP, Effluent Treatment Plant, Coal Slurry settling pit, 
Sewage Treatment Plant, Compressed air system, CPU 
regeneration plant, ZLD system, township maintenance works 
and any other Offsite area related to water/slurry/sewage 
treatment: 
1) Mechanical Maintenance (Preventive / Breakdown / Replacement / 
Overhauling) of pumps (both Horizontal & Vertical pumps), valves 
(Butterfly / Gate / Diaphragm / Plug / ball / globe), gear boxes, 
pipeline/ducts, agitators, tanks, vessels, Clariflocculators/Clarifiers, 
filters (Gravity sand filters/pressure filters etc.), strainers 
(Simplex/Duplex), Hoists/EOTs etc. 
2) Other details of works shall be given in tender documents. 
 
2.2 Area of work - Rubber Lining /FRP coating Works in Acid & 
Alkali Handling Tanks & Pipelines: 
1) Checking the health of rubber lining in Acid / Alkali tanks and 
vessels using spark-testing machine and Shore hardness by agency 
in presence of NTPC representative. 
2) Erection of scaffolding as required for inspection of tanks, vessels 
of Bulk Acid Storage Tanks (BATs) & DM streams and pipelines as 
per site requirement. 
3) Removal of existing rubber lining, surface preparation by sand 
blasting / buffering / wire brushing, re-rubber lining to be done in 
specified layers / thickness. External FRP coating (Min 3mm) may 
also to be done near tank manholes, if required. 
4) After steam curing, spark testing and the shore hardness test of 
the new rubber lining to be done. Shore Hardness should be 60 +/- 5. 
The spark test and shore hardness test machine are to be brought by 
the contractor. 
5) Necessary steam line shall be erected by the agency for which the 
required pipe will be in NTPC scope on free of charge basis. 
6) All fittings, ladder, platforms etc. removed before work shall be 
fitted back after completion of the rubber lining. 
7) The agency shall submit test certificates of natural rubber & rubber 
solution used in rubber lining. 
Separate test certificates will be required for each lot of materials. 
8) Removal and disposal of scrap, old rubber scraps after completion 
of the work, at a location identified by engineer-in-charge, will be 
responsibility of the agency. 
9) 24 V transformers and suitable lights shall be used while working 
inside the tanks. 
10) Arrangement of exhaust fans for sufficient ventilation of the tanks 
is to be arranged by the agency. 
11) Skilled manpower who are conversant with such job should only 
be deputed. 
12) Other details of works shall be given in tender documents. 
 
Notes for Sl. no. 2.2: 
1) The work of ‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm 
thick rubber lining of tanks/vessels/pipelines’ shall be executed by 
agency himself or by his sub-contractor who meets the following 
requirement: 
The applicant / his Sub-contractor should have executed work of 
‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm thick rubber lining 
of tanks/vessels/pipelines. 
2) The approval for execution of work by the agency himself or his 
Sub-contractor will be subjected to approval of EIC based on 
submission of relevant documents issued by Client (Relevant PO 
copy and client’s completion certificate/RA bill/Final deviation 
statement) to establish aforesaid criterion. All submitted documents 
shall be TPIA/ISA certified. 
 
 
PROFORMA OF "UNDERTAKING FOR REPAIR/COMPLETE REPLACEMENT OF RUBBER 
LINING OF TANKS/VESSELS/PIPELINES " 
(TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT ALONG WITH ENLISTMENT APPLICATION) 
 
 
NAME OF ENLISTMENT APPLICATION………………………………………………………………. 
 
 
NAME OF APPLICANT…………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
 
(a) We, the undersigned, submit our application for the works under the above-named 
application, in full conformity with the scope of work of said application.   
 
(b) Regarding work of ‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm thick rubber lining of 
tanks/vessels/pipelines’, we have read the criterion mentioned in Scope of work as detailed 
under: 
 
“1) The work of ‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm thick rubber lining of 
tanks/vessels/pipelines’ shall be executed by agency himself or by his sub-contractor who 
meets the following requirement: 
 
The applicant / his Sub-contractor should have executed work of  ‘repair/complete 
replacement of minimum 3.5 mm thick rubber lining of tanks/vessels/pipelines’. 
 
2) The approval for execution of work by the agency himself or his Sub-contractor will be 
subjected to approval of EIC based on submission of relevant documents issued by Client 
(Relevant PO copy and client’s completion certificate/RA bill/Final deviation statement) to 
establish aforesaid criterion. All submitted documents shall be TPIA/ISA certified.” 
 
(c) We hereby undertake that the work of ‘repair/complete replacement of minimum 3.5 mm 
thick rubber lining of tanks/vessels/pipelines’ shall be executed by us or our sub-contractor 
who meets the requirement mentioned under scope of work (Annexure-I). In this regard, 
required documents shall be timely submitted for approval of Engineer-In-Charge (EIC) 
before execution of work. 
 
 
 
    Signature ... ... ... ... ... .... 
Date ................ 
 
Place................ 
Name... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
 
Designation ... ... ... ... ... .... 
 
 
 
 
 
       
USSC-CPG1               PPG-QA 
 
   
   
   
Standardised Quality Plan 
Item Rubber Lining Job 
SQP No. CPG-QA-SQP-M-187 
Rev 00 
 
Digitally signed by GANPATI JHA
DN: cn=GANPATI JHA, c=IN, st=Chhattisgarh, o=NTPC LIMITED,
ou=CONTRACT,
serialNumber=d3135b18b48ad4b52905337811f4c80f1cc904c325d4
a9bbf5bb10177c50cae7
