Page 1 of 7 
 
NTPC Ltd 
Vendor Enlistment Cell (VEC) 
USSC, CPG-1, Nava Raipur 
1 CEG No. CIVIL-06 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Enlistment of vendors for Execution of Painting works on 
masonry/concrete surfaces of plant and township 
buildings/structures. 
3 Responsibility 
Centre 
VEC 
4 Enlistment 
Category 
Category 1 (from Rs. 20 lakhs upto Rs. 4.0 crs) 
5 Brief scope of work Execution of Painting works on masonry/concrete surfaces of plant and 
township buildings/structures. 
 
Painting works enlistment shall include following Scope of work. 
1. Job/volume contracts for painting works on 
masonry/concrete surfaces.  
2. Maintenance/period contracts for painting works on 
masonry/ concrete surfaces. 
3. Repair/renovation/beautification works of building having 
majority work of painting. 
4. Associated works for surface preparation like 
repair/application of plaster, putty etc. 
5. Painting works may include white/colour washing , 
distempering with dry distemper/oil bound washable 
distemper/acrylic distemper, surface finish  with cement 
paint, acrylic smooth paint, deluxe multisurface paint, acrylic 
emulsion, synthetic enamel paint, textured paint, granular 
texture finish etc. 
6. Paint finish for doors ,windows ,false ceiling system.  
7. Retaining wall / Boundary wall along with associated gate 
painting. 
8. All Concrete/masonry building painting upto 35m. height. 
9. Painting works shall include internal and/or external finishing 
works. 
 
Note: The above scope of work is indicative only and the exact scope 
of works would be projects/ station/ site specific and shall be given in 
Tender documents, a suggestive scope of work is attached as 
Annexure-I 
 
        Exclusion: Above Enlistment does not include: 
 
1. Painting works of Chimney. 
2. Cooling Tower painting. 
3. Exclusive structural steel painting of structures/buildings. 
4. Painting of building/structures above 35 m. 
 
 
Page 2 of 7 
 
6.  Technical 
Qualifying 
requirements 
A. Technical Criteria 
 
The applicant should have executed ‘Building works including 
painting’ And/or ‘Painting works’ during last five (05) years as on 
last date of submission of application. 
 
 
Notes for Clause A above for Qualifying Requirements: 
I. Building Works shall mean Construction/ ‘Repair & 
Maintenance’/ Renovation/ Alteration/ Modification works 
carried out in building(s)/structure(s). 
II. Reference work executed by an applicant as a sub-contract may 
also be considered provided the certificate issued by main 
contractor is duly certified by Project Authority/ owner 
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in 
support of Qualifying Requirements.  
III. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the 
applicant should have achieved the criteria specified above, 
even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed.  
 
Document to be 
submitted by 
Vendor in support  
of meeting QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA Bill/Final 
Deviation Statement.  
 
 
 
7 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
 Other Documents to be submitted: 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment- 
i . Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work 
during previous five years from the last date of submission of 
application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final 
Deviation Statement from the concerned client in support of 
successful execution of work against each of the POs to be 
submitted. 
i i . Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date 
of application. In case the audited results for the preceding 
financial year is not available, certification of financial statements 
from a practicing-chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In case, 
applicant is not able to submit the certificate from practicing 
chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of the three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial years shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from 
the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as 
Page 3 of 7 
 
on date of application and certificate from the practicing chartered 
certifying the financial parameters are not available. 
i i i . NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF & GST/Service Tax 
registration certificate.  
i v . PAN, PF and GST registration certificates 
v . Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to submit to get enlisted. 
v i . NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during evaluation. 
8 Execution 
Capability Criteria 
for Enlistment 
 
The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and 
Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of Enlisted Vendors shall be 
Rs.20,00,000 (Rs. Twenty Lakh). 
 
If any applicant does not submit the required documents so that their 
Execution Capability/ AATO exceeds Rs.20,00,000 (Rs. Twenty Lakh), 
such applicants shall not be considered for enlistment even if they 
meet the qualifying Requirement (QR) of subject Enlistment. 
 
Execution Capability of the vendor to execute similar work shall be 
calculated based on the values of three POs of highest execution value 
submitted by vendor as defined in the following table with an 
example: 
Capability of 
execution of 
similar work as 
per PO values  
PO-1 PO-2 PO-3 
PO values  70 60 55 
Execution 
Capability as 
per 
One/two/thre
e POs  
70x1.25=8
7.5 
(E.C. up to 
87.5 L) 
60x2=120 
(E.C. up to 
120 L) 
55x2.5=137.5 
(E.C. up to 
137.5 L) 
Execution 
capability of 
the vendor to 
execute 
similar work  
137.5 
(Highest of 87.5, 120 and 137.5) 
Vendor is capable to execute work up to cost 
estimate 137.5 L 
i.e. eligibility limit for enlistment up to cost 
estimate 137.5 L  
 
9 NOTES: 1.0 Similar work means: The work(s) of “Building works including 
painting’ And/or ‘Painting works’, read in conjunction with 
Notes mentioned under QR.  
2.0 For “Painting works” the value of work executed against 
associated works like surface preparation with application of 
plaster/ putty, erection of working platform/scaffolding etc. 
shall also be considered for arriving at execution capability. 
Page 4 of 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
3.0 For “ Building works including painting ” the value of complete 
building works (as defined at 6.A.I)  along with painting works 
value shall be considered for arriving at execution capability 
4.0 Executed Value means basic value (excluding taxes) of the P.O. 
pertaining to executed similar work. Where P.O. value is 
composite, the applicant should have to give break-up of 
Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, taxes etc.  
5.0 In case the PO includes portion of similar work, then the work 
executed with respect to Similar work only will be considered 
for arriving at executed value. 
6.0 Other income shall not be considered for computing annual 
turnover.  
7.0 For the PO/WO which were awarded prior to preceding 5 years 
from the last date of submission of application, the value of 
work executed in the preceding 5 years from the last date of 
submission of application will be considered. 
8.0 In case of contract(s) under execution as on the last date of 
submission of application, the value of executed work duly 
certified by applicant’s client, till such date will be considered 
for arriving at executed value. 
10 
 
Plants covered 
under the 
enlistment 
PAN NTPC 
Page 5 of 7 
 
Annexure-I 
 
Annexure-I (Suggestive Detail Scope of work) 
(1.0) Detail Scope of 
work 
 
The scope of work includes internal & external painting works in 
buildings and associated structures. 
 
(1.0 )Agency’s Scope 
1. Prior to application of painting works, necessary cleaning of the 
surfaces is  to be carried out by the agency with suitable tools like 
brushes etc. to the satisfaction of EIC. There will not be separate 
measurement for cleaning of surface/dust removal, Agency has to 
ensure that wall surface is made smooth and crack free and free 
from dirt, dust, foreign matter, oil, grease, efflorescence. However 
as per work requirement scrapping/sand papering of old paint shall 
be paid as per relevant item on case to case basis.  
2. Associated works like plaster, putty etc. shall be paid separately 
under relevant items considered as per Job requirement.  
 
3. The contractor has to arrange necessary tools, tackles, manpower 
and necessary scaffolding, staging, etc. at his own cost. All the 
consumables like nails, screws, PVC rawl plugs, paint brush, 
spatula, scraping paper, wire brush, stand, scaffolding etc. shall be 
brought by the agency at his own cost. 
 
4. All paint /finishing materials are to be provided by the contractor. 
Approval for make/brand of all bought out items/materials is to be 
obtained by the contractor from NTPC prior to procurement of the 
same. All bought out items should comply to IS/CPWD 
specifications. Necessary technical data sheet & test certificates 
from shall be submitted to NTPC for review. 
 
5. Material Transportation/freight charges for bought out items are in 
the agency’s scope  
 
6. After the surface preparation, first coat, second coat and/or 
topcoat should be applied. The work shall be executed as per 
CPWD specifications. 
 
Page 6 of 7 
 
Annexure-I (Suggestive Detail Scope of work) 
7. The work has to be executed at different levels, elevations and 
locations.  
8. Agency has to maintain stock register of all bought out items 
(paints/finishing material) and their consumption details. 
 
9. The actual consumption of paint at site may also be co-related 
using Dry Film Thickness (DFT) or Wet Film Thickness (WFT) meter. 
The acceptable thickness range shall be worked out by making 3 
sample patches. In case WFT meter is used, the DFT shall be 
worked out based on the solid content specified in the technical 
data sheet for the applicable paint. Contractor has to arrange the 
DFT/WFT meter for measurement at its own cost. 
 
10. The agency has to deploy adequate manpower of required skill sets 
, so as to execute the work Safely, Timely and with best Quality. 
 
11. Work shall be carried out in presence of agency’s competent 
representative at all times. 
 
12. Personal Protective Equipments like safety belts , gloves, safety 
shoes etc as prescribed in the Factories Act and /or State Factories 
Rules shall be provided to the workers at agency’s own cost . Other 
protective tools , like fall arrestors, safety nets etc shall be provided 
by the  agency as per job requirement & as per instruction of EIC. 
 
13. The contractor shall arrange to provide safety training to all his 
employees/workers. 
 
14. For work at height, platform system is the crucial T&P which will 
facilitate safe ,timely & quality painting work . It shall be suitable 
for the job requirement and shall be arranged by the agency.  
 
    The system may consist of scaffolding, hanging platforms, cradles, 
temporary lifts, aerial working platform or combination of such 
systems meant to give safe approach to work areas. 
            Bamboo scaffolding shall not be permitted. 
Page 7 of 7 
 
Annexure-I (Suggestive Detail Scope of work) 
 
            The SOW by the agency for the platform system includes: 
 Providing & erection of entire platform system. 
  Proper maintenance of the platform system throughout the 
execution period of the work. Repairs, if any, are to be immediately 
attended without hampering the work. 
 Dismantling of the platform system after completion of the work 
and its removal from NTPC site. 
  All the temporary holes or cavities made for the purpose of 
fasteners /anchors etc., during the process of erection of platform 
system should be refilled suitably after the completion of work as 
per instructions of EIC. 
 
15. Any type of material shifting, relocation and restoring the same at 
original position etc. required for painting works shall be in the 
scope of Agency without any additional cost to NTPC.  
 
16. All debris, building rubbish, left out materials, paint droppings shall 
be removed by the contractor from the site after completion of 
work and properly cleaned site shall be handed over to NTPC.  
 
(2.0) NTPC SCOPE 
 
Electrical power will be provided free of cost at one point wherever 
existing /spare point is available, all arrangement for taking connection 
from existing point to construction site will be in contractor's scope. 
 
(3.0) NOTES FOR 
INDENTORS (Site 
specific) 
1. Indenter has to add other terms and conditions like defect liability 
period , Security Deposit, contract period, extension of contract, 
Payment terms, Deviation limits, safety clauses etc. 
2. Indenter has to specify maximum height for executing painting 
works. 
3. Indenter has to provide item specific reference Field quality plan. 
4. As per work requirement separate item for scaffolding can be 
considered while preparing estimates. 
 