 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
Invites 
 
Expression of Interest (EOI) 
 
for 
 
 
Procurement of spares for Single point lubrication 
system of already installed system for PAN NTPC  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Documents of EOI 
 
This EOI document comprises the following sections: 
 
(i) Section I : Instructions to the Applicants 
(ii) Section II : Detailed Scope and Qualifying Requirements 
(iii) Section III : Application Form and Annexures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-I  
Instruction to Applicants 
Download Information and Timelines For Submission of EOI 
a. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EoI from www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in 
& https://vdc.ntpc.co.in. 
b. Last date for queries/ seeking clarifications: 20 days from EOI 
c. Last date for submission of EoI: 30 days from EOI 
Applicants have to submit the response to EOI, completed in all respect, till the last date for 
submission of EOI at the NTPC VDC Portal.  The URL of the vendor enlistment portal 
is https://vdc.ntpc.co.in  
 
NTPC Ltd reserves the right to accept or reject any or all applications, cancel/withdraw the EoI 
process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, APPLICANT shall not have any 
claim against NTPC Ltd arising out of such action. NTPC Ltd. bears no responsibility or liability of 
any kind in reference to the EoI. 
Address for Communication 
 
---------------------------------------------------- 
NTPC Limited, 
Unified Shared Service Centre, Central 
Procurement Group-1, 
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515233/9425823009 
 
Instructions to Applicants 
a. For expression of interest, the Application Form and Annexures given in Section-III shall be duly 
filled and sent to NTPC Ltd by the APPLICANT in soft copy. 
b. Applicants should go through all the document thoroughly before filling and submitting the 
application form and annexures in Section-III 
c. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two persons, with complete address, 
phone number and email id. 
d. NTPC, may at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents and/or seek 
clarifications from the applicant (s) after the deadline for submission of response, inter alia, for the 
purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities in their responses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-II 
Detailed Scope and 
Qualifying Requirements 
 
 
 
A) Procurement of spares for Single point lubrication system of already installed system for PAN NTPC  
B) Introduction: 
NTPC Limited generates more than 400 billion units of electricity per year through its power plant 
assets of coal, gas, hydel and renewable energy-based totaling approximately 80 GW capacity spread 
across the country. Furthermore, NTPC intends to reach a capacity of 130 GW by 2032.  
 
C) Intent of Expression of Interest 
NTPC Ltd. is inviting Expression of Interest for spares for already installed Single point lubrication 
system for PAN NTPC. 
 
 
D)  Scope: 
The scope of activities would include the following: 
Spares for already installed Single point lubrication is required for application PAN NTPC (CHP/EMD/AHD etc.) 
for critical applications like Electric Motors, Gravity Take -up/conveyors, Stacker Reclaimers, 
Crushers/Vibratory screens, Slurry pumps etc. where reliability and safety is key to minimize man machine 
interface.  
Spares parts should be compatible and interchangeable for both Software & Hardware with existing 
manufacturer HTL Perma system. 
Agency should comply with MLC (Minimum local content) in Product / Service Class of being either 
class 1 (50%) or class 2 (20%). 
Single point lubrication should be backed by 100% service support e.g., free installation of all 
lubrication spares/system at site with regular service/inspection support on free of cost for all NTPC 
sites. 
E)  Qualification criteria for Procurement of spares for Single point lubrication system of already 
installed system for PAN NTPC  
 
The EOI applicant  who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated hereunder:  
 
 
TECHNICAL 
CRITERIA FOR 
QUALIFICATION 
1.The applicant should be a Manufacturer  of Single point 
lubrication system & should have supplied 500 CC and 1000 CC 
system or higher capacity within preceding seven (07) years 
reckoned from the last date of submission of EOI.   
2.The applicant Should have supplied Single point lubrication 
system to any [Industry/Government “Agency(s)/Body(s)”], 
within preceding seven (07) years reckoned from the last date of 
submission of EOI which should have been in successful operation for 
a period not less than Two years. 
Remarks: 1. Vendor has to submit 03(maximum) the highest executed 
value work order / PO of aforesaid services. 
2.Vendor has to submit performance report for successful operation 
for a period not less than Two years.  
3.Documents viz ISO Certificate/BIS/UDYAM etc to be submitted 
for proof of Manufacturer. 
 
All applicants, are  required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the 
documents, in support of technical criteria Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work 
Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates / Completion / execution certificate etc).  
 
The Standard Terms and Conditions 
(https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC_En.pdf) available on the VDC Portal 
shall apply to this EOI. 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL CRITERIA FOR 
QUALIFICATION 
In addition to above, the vendor will also be required to furnish 
and upload their  audited financial statements of preceding 
three (03) consecutive financial years as on the date of opening. 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the last date of submission 
of application, are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. 
 
In case, an applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years  
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters.  
Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed, stating that 
the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the last date of submission of application 
and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is 
 not available.
  
 
 
 
 
Section-III 
Application Form & Annexures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 | Page 
Annexure-1 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
 
 
Date  :   
 
Place :   
To, 
NTPC Ltd. , 
 
 
 
 
Sub.: (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Ref.: EoI No. , dated (the “EoI”) 
 
Dear Sir, 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the "Applicant"] having read, examined 
and understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
We confirm that neither we nor any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate Parent 
Company has submitted response other than this response directly or indirectly in 
response to the aforesaid EoI. 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EoI, issued by NTPC Ltd, as 
amended. In token of our acceptance of the EoI, the same has been signed & 
stamped by us and enclosed in the response. We hereby confirm that the 
provisions of the EoI shall be binding on us. 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per provisions and formats of the EoI, 
without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or 
notes. 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision 
made by NTPC Ltd in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EoI 
shall be binding on us. We hereby expressly waive any and all claims in respect 
of the EoI process. We confirm that there are no litigations or disputes against us, 
which materially affect our ability to participate or function under the obligations with 
regard to EoI. 
 
30 | Page 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished below: 
Name : 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in 
electronic format as per the EoI for consideration. 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of 
submission as stated in the EoI and subsequent communications from NTPC Ltd, 
if any 
 
7. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the 
requirements stipulated in the EoI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and 
under- standing. We would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in 
our response. 
8. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for 
acceptance for a period of twelve (12) months from the response Deadline. 
9. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed "Non-
Responsive". 
10. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
We remain, 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of 
Attorney is issued 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 | Page 
Annexure-2 
 
INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
NTPC intends to explore the potential SC/ST and or Women MSE vendors interested to do the 
business with NTPC for Transportation of Ash by Road from its different plants located in 
different states in India. Interested vendors may submit the following details: 
 
Sl.No. Description Particulars of Vendors 
1 Name of the vendor / Agency  
2 Partnership Form / Proprietorship Form  
3 Brief Description of area of Business / Works  
4 Udyam Registration Certificate No.  
5 Social Category (SC/ST or Women)  
6 States in which you want / prefer to do the Ash 
Transport business with NTPC 
 
7 Highest Work Order / PO Value  
Rs. (Lacs) 
Name of the Client: - 
8 Annual Turn Over:- 
 
a) FY 22-23:- 
 
b) FY 23-24:- 
 
c) FY 24-25:- 
 
 
Note: - The above duly filled format with supporting documents (URC, Partnership / 
Proprietorship form certificate, Copy of Order, ATO certificate, Balance sheet) copy to be 
submitted on NTPC VDC portal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 