DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900316566 SECTION-I (IFB)  PAGE 
1 of 3 
NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)   
FOR 
Strengthening and repair works of Powerhouse at Tapovan Vishnugad Hydro Power 
Project 
LOCATED AT 
NTPC Tapovan Vishnugard Hydro Power Project 
P.O.- Joshimath, Distt.- Chamoli, Uttarakhand-246443.
 Date: .0 .2026 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:  9900316566 
GePNIC ID: 
1.0 NTPC Limited invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
Strengthening and repair works of Powerhouse at Tapovan Vishnugard Hydro Power 
Project 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through Domestic/ Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at Government e- procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB .0 .2026 
Documents Download Date Start from .0 .2026 
Last Date of receipt of queries from prospective bidders .0 .2026 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time Not Applicable 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both Techno-
Commercial and Price)  
Up to 1500 hrs (IST) on .0 .2026
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & Time .0 .2026 at 1530 hrs (IST)
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900316566 SECTION-I (IFB)  PAGE 
2 of 3 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL 
EMD/Bid Security in INR 2 Lacs 
5.0 
6.0 
7.0 
8.0 
9.0 
10.0 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above. 
All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 2,00,000/-  
(Indian Rupees T  Lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-
BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as stipulated 
at Annexure-  to IFB.
Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ using the 
enrolment and participation in the bidding process including Bidder Manual for online fee 
payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
Only 'Class-
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900316566 SECTION-I (IFB)  PAGE 
3 of 3 
11.0 
12.0 
13.0 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer 
of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a 
land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the 
same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from 
those countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government 
of India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is 
engaged in development projects. 
NTPC reserves the right to impose additional performance security wherever  required, 
at its discretion to safeguard the Company's interests for contract  execution. 
Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder 
is considered to be qualified. 
14.0  Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
15.0 Address for Communication: 
Senior Manager (CS) / AGM (CS) 
Project CC&M 
5th Floor,  NTPC Intelligent Office Building 
SRHQ, Kavadiguda Road,  
Hyderabad, Telangana 500020 
E-mail: vipinsharma01@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in
Tel. No.: 040-27683448/ 0120-4946535
E-mail: vipinsharma01@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in
16.0    Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi  110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
ANNEXURE  
Qualifying Requirements for Strengthening and Repair Works above the Suspended 
Ceiling of Machine and Transformer Caverns of Powerhouse at Tapovan Vishnugad 
Hydro Power Project. 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
1.1.0 The bidder should have successfully executed/completed work of 
 in the preceding 
seven (7) years reckoned as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening. 
 AND 
1.2.0 The bidder should have successfully executed/ completed similar works (as mentioned at 
Clause 1.1.0) in the last 07 (seven) years from the last day of month previous to one in 
which NIT has been invited and should be either of the following: 
a) One similar completed/executed work of value not less than INR 140 lakhs.
OR 
b) Two similar completed/executed work of value not less than INR 87 lakhs.
OR 
c) Three similar completed/executed work of value not less than INR 70 lakhs.
Notes for 1.1: 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not
completed/closed.
2.In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening duly certified by Project Authority shall be considered acceptable.
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority,
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying
requirements. Project Authority means the owner of the project with whom the main contractor
is engaged.
4. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture /Consortium /
Associate can also be considered provided:
A. The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures /
consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture agreement /
consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the bidder's scope of work and
break-up of quantities executed by them as individual contribution in the joint Venture
/ Consortium / Associate, duly authenticated by the Project Authority, meet the
relevant provisions of eligibility criteria.
B. In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated joint
venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break-up of quantities  between the
partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for
establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria above, the credit of executed 
quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio of bidder's share in the integrated 
joint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder establishes that it regularly underta kes 
works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture 
shall be duly authenticated by the Project Authority/owner. 
5. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be
considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the breakup of basic
value and taxes.
6. For evaluation purpose, the Value of reference work, submitted by the bidder for
consideration, shall be escalated each year @5% from the date of completion of reference
work till the date of Techno-commercial Bid opening.
1.2  Financial Criteria: 
1.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be less than Rupees INR 175 
lakhs during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening. 
1.2.2 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification. 
Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with
copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.
A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company.
1.2.3 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of  
Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit  
the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the  
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall  
be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be  
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating  
that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for 1.2: 
1.Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
per Companies Act of India, in vogue.