Mandatory Information 
Source of NIT NSPCL-CC 
State New Delhi 
NIT No. 2026_NSPCL_269123 _1 dated 13.03.2026 vide Bidding Document No: CMCC260004  
Brief NIT Description 
R&M work of ESP Upgradation at Bhilai PP-II (2X30MW+1X14MW) 
Contract Classification O&M 
Tender Cost Not Applicable 
Date of NIT Issue 13.03.2026 
Document download start Date 13.03.2026 
Bid Submission Date 02.04.2026 
Technical Bid Opening Date 03.04.2026 
Package Incharge's mail-ID hodcnm.cc@nspcl.co.in  
Alternate Coordinator's mail ID vidyathool@nspcl.co.in  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION  - I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited 
(A Joint Venture of NTPC & SAIL) 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
 R&M work of ESP Up-gradation at Bhilai PP-II (2X30MW+1X14MW)  
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Tender ID No: 2026_NSPCL_269123 _1                                            Date: 13.03.2026 
 
Bidding Document No: CMCC260004 
 
1.0 NTPC-SAlL Power Company Limited invites on -line bids on Single Stage 
Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope -I: Techno -Commercial and 
Envelope-II: Price)  from eligible Bidders fo r R&M work of ESP Up -
gradation at Bhilai PP -II (2X30MW+1X14MW), as per the scope of work 
briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
 
A. Following is the scope of work for BHEL make passes. 
 
i. The original ESP was designed with a collecting electrode spacing of 250 
mm; we propose to upgrade the system with a 400 mm electrode spacing 
to enhance collection efficiency and overall performance. 
ii. Complete replacement of collecting electrodes along with their suspension 
system. 
iii. Complete replacement of discharge electrodes and their suspension 
system. 
iv. Replacement of the entire rapping mechanism for collecting electrod es, 
discharge electrodes, and gas distribution plates, as per the original 
Tumbling Hammer Rapping System design. 
v. Complete replacement of existing Transformer Rectifier (TR) sets along with 
controller with latest controllers and conventional single-phase TR sets.  
vi. The existing MCC/ACP panel will be retained, modification to be carried out 
only. 
vii. Power cables, C&I cables, and cable trays with accessories will be replaced 
or retained based on actual site conditions. Existing to be used wherever 
possible. 
viii. The existing support structure, casing, hoppers, and inlet/outlet cones will 
be retained, with patchwork or reinforcement carried out as necessary.  
ix. Insulation and cladding of the casing, hoppers, cones & ducting will be 
retained, with patchwork done for any damaged sections.  
x. Modification of the common duct at the ESP inlet and outlet. 
xi. Expansion joints at the ESP inlet and outlet will be replaced. 
 
 
 
 
 
xii. Guillotine gates at the inlet and outlet will be replaced. 
 
B. Following is the scope of work for new passes in place of existing Andrew 
Yule passes. 
 
i. Complete dismantling of support structure including foundations and supply 
& installation of new support structure including foundations or 
strengthening of structure and foundation of existing Andrew Yule pass.  
ii. Dismantling of existing ESP internals, Roof, TR sets, inlet & outlet common 
duct for modification.  
iii. Supply and installation of ESP casing for each newly added field. 
iv. Supply and installation of one (1) hopper per field for dust collection 
v. Supply and installation of n ew inlet and outlet cones for the newly added 
ESP. 
vi. Complete supply and installation of new collecting and emitting electrodes 
including rapping system. 
vii. Supply and installation of new guillotine gate, expansion bellows and new 
duct to connect with existing system. 
viii. Supply and installation of new TR sets, MCC, ACP panels, cables, cable 
trays etc. to meet the requirements. 
C. Following is the scope of work Ash handling system for both BHEL make 
and new passes in place of Andre Yule passes. 
 
i. Supply and installation  of a dedicated ash handling system for the newly 
added ESP Pass and existing BHEL ESP Pass. Ash Handling system shall 
consist of i.e. 
 
a. Unloading of Ash from ESP hopper up to Ash Vessel including 
fluidizing pad, valves, instruments etc. 
b. MS ERW heavy grade Pipe conveying from Ash Vessel up to Silo 
including fittings. 
c. Oil Lubricating Air cooled screw air compressor – (1W+1S) Common 
for three units including Air receiver. 
d. PLC Panel for operation of Ash Handling system as per OEM/ OES 
Design requirement. 
ii. Interconnection and seamless integration with the existing ash handling 
infrastructure to ensure synchronized and efficient operation. 
 
3.0 NSPCL intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Domestic Funds / 
Own Resources. 
 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the 
Bidding Documents, which are available at Government e -procurement 
portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website - https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 
and as per the following schedule: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuance of IFB   13.03.2026 
Documents Download Dates 
and Time From 13.03.2026 
Last date for receipt of queries 
from bidders (if any) * 24.03.2026 
Pre-bid conference date & time 
 
Shall be conducted through VC on MS 
Teams on 24.03.2026, 1100 Hrs.(IST).  
Bid (both Techno-Commercial 
and Price) receipt date & time Up to 02.04.2026 by 15:00 hrs. (IST)   
Date & Time for opening of 
Envelop-I (Techno-Commercial 
bid) 
03.04.2026 at 15:30 hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of 
Envelop-II (Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Bid Security/EMD Amount INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees 
Two Crores Only ) 
 
*No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified above. 
 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 
2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Two Crore only) in the form as stipulated 
in Bidding Documents. 
            
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY 
SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED 
 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested 
Bidder from the e -Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is 
invited under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the 
website https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app. The use of Digital Signature 
Certificate (DSC) Class - 3 key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. 
Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC 
Class-3 key from agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal 
also has the user manuals with detailed guide lines on enrolment and 
participation in the bidding process. 
 
          No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be 
submitted ONLY at the e -Tender Portal i.e., 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 
 
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Annexure-
I. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.0  'Class-I local suppliers’ and ‘Class -II local suppliers’ only are eligible to 
participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as 
specified in the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only 
if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the 
Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer 
of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which 
shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from 
those countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the 
Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to 
another is not permissible. 
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not 
construe that bidder is considered qualified. 
 
12.0 NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the 
Invitation for Bids (IFB) for the subject package without assigning any reason 
whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
 
13.0 Address for Communication 
 
HOD (CC&M),  
NTPC SAIL Power Company Limited,  
4th Floor, NBCC Tower,  
15, Bhikaiji Cama Place,  
New Delhl-110066 
Contact: 011-26717376 / 77  
e-mail  : vidyathool@nspcl.co.in/ hodcnm.cc@nspcl.co.in  
 
 Websites: https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app or  www.nspcl.co.in 
 
14.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC- SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
4th Floor, NBCC Tower, 
15 Bhikaiji Cama Place, 
New Delhi - 110066 
Corporate Identification Number:U74899DL1999PLC098274,  
Website: www.nspcl.co.in 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M work of ESP Up-gradation at Bhilai 
PP-II (2X30MW+1X14MW)  
 
BID DOCUMENT NO:CMCC260004 
The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they 
fulfil the following Qualifying Requirements. 
 
1. Technical Criteria 
 
1.0 Route.1-The Bidder should have designed, supplied, erected/supervised 
erection and commissioned/supervised commissioning of at least one ESP of 
the type offered (either rigid discharge framework Electrostatic Precipitator or 
Moving Electrode Electrostatic Precipitator (MEEP)) having design efficiency 
not less than 99% operating in conjun ction with pulverized/CFBC/AFBC coal 
fired steam generating unit rated for a minimum of 30 MW unit size or minimum 
150 Ton per hour steaming capacity, which is in successful operation for not 
less than one (1) year prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
 
1.1(A)  Route.2-The bidder should have executed / are executing Renovation and 
Modernization (R&M) or up gradation or retrofitting of ESPs for 
Pulverised/CFBC/AFBC coal fired steam generating units rated for a minimum 
of 30 MW unit size or minimum 150 Ton per hour steaming capacity and shall 
associate with an Electrostatic Precipitator manufacturer who meets the 
requirements as per 1.0 above. Bidder shall however offer only the type of ESP 
for which his associate qualifies. 
 
1.1(B)   The bidder shall along with the bid furnish a deed of joint undertaking executed 
by him and the Electrostatic Precipitator manufacturer for the successful 
performance of Electrostatic Precipitator, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents in which the Electrostatic Precipitator manufacturer and the 
bidder are jointly and severally liable to the Employer to perform all the 
contractual obligations including the technical guarantees for the complete 
Electrostatic Precipitator. The deed of joint undertaking  shall be submitted 
along with the bid, failing which the bidder shall be disqualified, and his bid shall 
be rejected. In case of award, the Electrostatic Precipitator manufacturer will be 
required to furnish on demand a bank guarantee for 2% of the total contract 
price of Electrostatic Precipitator package in addition to  the contract 
performance security to be furnished by the bidder. 
 
2. Financial Criteria 
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder should not be less than INR 55.50 
Crore (Indian Rupees Fifty-Five Crore and Fifty Lacs Only) during the preceding 
three (3) completed financial years as on date of techno -commercial bid 
opening. 
 
2.2 The Net worth should not be less than 100% of the Bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. 
 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M work of ESP Up-gradation at Bhilai 
PP-II (2X30MW+1X14MW)  
 
BID DOCUMENT NO:CMCC260004 
In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth based on the strength 
of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the 
Holding Companies wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidders and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company, and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than100% of their total paid 
up share capital. However, individually, their Net worth should not be less than 
75% of respective paid up shar e capitals. For Consortiums/Joint Ventures, 
wherever applicable, the Net worth of all consortium/Joint Venture members in 
combined manner should not be less than 100% of their paid up share capital. 
However individually their Net worth should not be less t han 75% of their 
respective paid up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined)=(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
 
Where X1, X2 X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75% 
of the respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up 
share capitals. 
 
2.3 In case, a bidder does not satisfy the financial c riteria, stipulated at clause 2.1 
above on its own, its holding company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at clause 2.1 above, provided that the net worth of such 
holding company as on the last day of preceding financial year is at least equal 
to or more than the paid -up share capital of the holding company. In such an 
event, the bidder would  be required to furnish along with its bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from its holding company, supported by Board Resolution, as per 
the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the contract by the bidder in 
case of award. 
 
2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the bidd er furnishes the 
following further documents on substantiation of its qualification 
 
1. Copies of the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements 
of its Holding Company. 
 
2. A Ce rtificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the un -audited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual 
report of the company. 
 
2.5 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno 
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M work of ESP Up-gradation at Bhilai 
PP-II (2X30MW+1X14MW)  
 
BID DOCUMENT NO:CMCC260004 
Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results for the three consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would  be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating 
that the Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of 
Techno commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
           Note 
 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free 
reserves. Free reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits 
and share premium account but does not include reserves credited out 
of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account 
and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
 
3. The figures indicated in 2.1 are exclusive of Taxes and Duties. If 
required, certificate in support of taxes and duties to be provided from 
Chartered Accountant. 
 
4. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 