                              NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
CONTRACT FOR MODIFICATION OF MILL HANDLING ARRANGEMENT OF 
ONE UNIT OF ST-1 BOILER AT NTPC BARH 
 
       Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900321402                          
     
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” 
from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned 
hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK  
The scope of work comprises of  
 
CONTRACT FOR MODIFICATION OF MILL HANDLING ARRANGEMENT OF ONE 
UNIT OF ST-1 BOILER AT NTPC BARH 
The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, erection, testing and 
inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer ’s works, packing, supply, 
transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection 
including associated civil and structural works if any. 
NTPC intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Condi tions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sa le at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Pre-bid Conference As per e-tender portal. 
 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per e-t ender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender port al 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender port al 
Price bid Opening Date & time As per e-tender portal. 
 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 10,00,000/-  
Tender Fee NIL 
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be ente rtained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference  (if applicable) as specified 
above.” 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender  website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stip ulated in the Bidding 
documents. Option for Online payment of EMD is made available at GepNIC/e tender portal. 
Bidders are requested to please avail the facility. 
For details, please refer to Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD Exemption Allowed” as “NO” and “BG Required” as “Yes” 
Tabs are enabled for the purpose of allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of 
the bank Guarantee if online EMD is not opted. Bidd ers are advised NOT to upload 
MSE/other document for availing exemption. Payment of EM D and Tender fee is not 
exempted in this tender. Bids without adequate Bid S ecurity and Tender fee, as per 
tender provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting bid security is enabled. Bid Security/EMD may be paid only 
through online payment of bid security amount applicab le for this tender OR through Bank 
Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the tender provisions. 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be subm itted in the form of e-BG 
through NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e-BG, due to some  practical difficulties or 
constraints, physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG as bid security, if opted for, 
should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for 
communication (Clause-13 hereunder) before the bid submission deadline in physical 
form and scanned copy of BG must be uploaded in the FEE folder in the tendering portal. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank 
guarantee and also ensure that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the 
address mentioned above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 
15, failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: NIL 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder sha ll furnish, as a part of his Bid, 
an Earnest Money Deposit of amount ₹ 10,00,000/- (Rs. Ten Lakh only) 
 
c) Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/Performance Security is to be submitted as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accord ance with the form of Bank Guarantee 
towards Bid Security/EMD/Performance security included in t he Employer’s Bidding 
Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG sho uld only be as per Form-1 specified 
vide Sec VII Book 3 of 3 and EMD BG submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard 
Format shall be rejected for which NTPC shall not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security i n a separate sealed envelope shall 
be rejected by the Employer as being non-responsive. 
 
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope sepa rately in physical form by the 
stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given below.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURI TY AND INTEGRITY 
PACT(If applicable) SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted as E-BG/ electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, 
Bidder to submit the copy of E-BG/proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed 
envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded  by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to 
provide GSTIN number.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS.  
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding  shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: 
 
 
7.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
7.1.1 The Bidder should have executed the work of ‘Supply and Erection' of “Boiler / Steam 
Generator / Coal Mill” in any “Thermal Power Plant” of minimum Unit Capacity of 200 
MW. 
 
OR 
 
7.1.2 The Bidder should have executed the work of ‘Supply and Erection’ of ‘Structure for 
Hoist of capacity 20 Tonnes or more’ in any “Boiler / S team Generator/ Coal Milling 
System” in any “Thermal Power Plant” of minimum Unit Capacity of 200 MW. 
 
Notes for Technical Criteria: 
1. ‘Structure for Hoist’ mentioned above means hoist handl ing complete structure, 
including monorails/ beams and supporting arrangements. 
2. The word “executed" mentioned above means that the bi dder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is du ly certified by owner 
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
 
7.2 Financial Criteria: 
7.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be less than Rs. 800 Lakh 
(Rupees Eight Crore only) during the preceding three (3) completed financial years a s 
on the date of Techno- Commercial bid opening. 
7.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial cri teria, stipulated at Cl. 7.2.1 above on 
its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet  the stipulated turnover 
requirements at Cl. 7.2.1 above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company as 
on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up 
share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the bidder would be required to 
furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by Board Resolution, as per the format  enclosed in the bid 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of 
the Contract by the bidder in case of award. 
7.2.3 The Net Worth of the bidder as on the last day of the prece ding financial year (reckoned 
on the date of techno-commercial bid opening) should no t be less than 100% of the 
Bidder's paid-up share capital. In case the Bidder me ets the requirement of Net worth 
based on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries 
of its Holding companies wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, 
in combined manner should not be less than 100% of th eir total paid-up share capital. 
However individually, their Net worth should not be l ess than 75% of their respective 
paid-up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 Net worth (combined) = (Xl+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where Xl, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which shoul d not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and YI, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
7.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited  financial statements on stand-
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
 
a. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
along with copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its 
Holding Company. 
b. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the 
company 
7.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last preceding fi nancial year as on the date of 
Techno- Commercial bid opening are not available, the  financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acc eptable. In case, Bidder is not 
able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive fin ancial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the f inancial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the  format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on 
the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Cert ificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
. 
 
Notes for Financial Criteria: 
 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the  meaning ascribed 
to them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include reserves credited out of the reval uation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Furthe r, any debit balance of 
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or 
written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.    
 
 
8.0 ‘Class-I local suppliers’’ - are eligible to participate in this tender, as defi ned in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) , Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of 
the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Cl ass-I Local Supplier (Minimum 
Local Content equal to or more than 50%) by acceptin g the GTE & declaration in Bid 
Form.  By accepting the MLC provision of GTE, it will be considered that: 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in 
Annexure-II to BDS.  
 
Also, supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for 
violation of ‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII 
Order) dated 15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by 
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration 
and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) havi ng specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which  shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not  apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines 
of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
10.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall 
have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
11.0 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to 
be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and open ed at the address given below in the 
presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
12.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intendin g Bidder to another is not 
permissible.  
 
13.0 Address for communication: 
 
DGM/AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chhattisgarh - 492018  
Email: cpsingh@ntpc.co.in /amitksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515455 / 8004948166 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
14.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 14-Mar-2026 08:22 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference
Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900321402
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_106055_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online
Bankers
S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf EMD Scanned
Details
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Technical
details and
attachments
.pdf Attachment-
3A
.pdf Technical QR
Documents
.pdf
Financial QR
Documents
and balance
Sheets
.pdf TPIA/ISA
Undertaking
.pdf Power of
Attorney
.pdf
Declaration
regarding
insolvency,
bankruptcy
and
Liquidation
(Attachment-
3L)
3 Finance .xls Price Bid
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 10,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title CONTRACT FOR MODIFICATION OF MILL HANDLING ARRANGEMENT OF ONE UNIT OF
Work Description CONTRACT FOR MODIFICATION OF MILL HANDLING ARRANGEMENT OF ONE UNIT OFST-1 BOILER AT NTPC
BARH
3/14/26, 8:22 PM NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedViewTender&service=direct&session=T&sp=StHpwzEIiud4Dy… 1/3
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
No 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 365 
Location Western Region Head
QuartersII Plot No. -87,
Secto
Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region
Head QuartersII
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 16-Mar-2026 01:00 PM Bid Opening Date 08-Apr-2026 03:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
16-Mar-2026 01:00 PM Document Download / Sale End
Date
06-Apr-2026 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 16-Mar-2026 01:00 PM Clarification End Date 24-Mar-2026 05:00 PM 
Bid Submission Start Date 16-Mar-2026 01:00 PM Bid Submission End Date 06-Apr-2026 03:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 684.84
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 BOQ BOQ_109288.xls Price Bid 312.50
2 Tender Documents Bid_Doc.rar Bidding Doc 20163.12
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE- MLC- LAND BORDER CLAUSE- BID SECURITY
DECLARATION)
S.No Particulars Expected Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the
PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT
requirements of the Tender. - [ MLC Declaration for Services]
Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept Bid Security Declaration - [ BID SECURITY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules - [ SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC - [ FRAUD PREVENTION] Yes Yes
5.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC - [
BANNING POLICY DECLARATION] Yes Yes
6.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per tender documents on Restrictions
on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India -
[ LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE]
Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements - [ QR COMPLIANCE] Yes Yes
8.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents - [ NO DEVIATION
CERTIFICATION] Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in Harsh Mamodia Harsh Mamodia
2. ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in AJAY SHIVHARE AJAY KUMAR SHIVHARE
3. anandshanker@ntpc.co.in ANAND SHANKER ANAND SHANKER
3/14/26, 8:22 PM NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedViewTender&service=direct&session=T&sp=StHpwzEIiud4Dy… 2/3
4. cpsingh@ntpc.co.in Chandra Prakash Singh Chandra Prakash Singh
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal
places
2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree Applicable
2 MSEs Order 2012 Not Applicable Not Applicable
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name DGM (CnM)CnM
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By Chandra Prakash Singh
Designation DGM
Created Date 12-Mar-2026 05:30 PM
 
3/14/26, 8:22 PM NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedViewTender&service=direct&session=T&sp=StHpwzEIiud4Dy… 3/3