(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 1 of 17 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
FOR 
 
IDENTIFICATION OF DOMESTIC VENDORS FOR INDIGENEOUS MANUFACTURING 
OF ITEMS/EQUIPMENT FOR NTPC POWER PLANTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 

(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 2 of 17 
 
 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
EOI No.: NTPC/CQA/EOI/2026/01      Date: 18.03.2026 
 
NTPC is Inviting an Expression of Interest for “Identification of domestic vendors for 
Indigenous manufacturing of items/equipment for NTPC power plants”. 
 
1.0 Objective: 
(i) To promote 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and ‘Make in India’ policy of Government of 
India, it is intended to identify domestic vendors  who do not have prior 
experience & not getting qualified themselves for manufacturing of certain 
identified items/equipment. This EOI is to identify interested domestic 
vendors for Trial/Development order at NTPC for items/equipment 
(mentioned at Annexure -A along with minimum eligibility criteria ) for 
NTPC power plants. 
(ii) Based on EOI response, NTPC will prepare a database of such domestic 
vendors and may explore the possibility of trial/development order for the  
identified items/equipment at NTPC. The Purpose of development order is to 
qualify the Domestic Vendor(s) for identified items/equipment for the type and 
capacity for the upcoming NTPC tenders after successful completion of 
demonstration of Trial/Development order. 
(iii) Trial/ development order of identified items/equipment shall be considered 
successful based on minimum one -year successful operation of  the 
items/equipment and meeting the rated parameters as well as guarantees , as 
applicable. Successful operation definition and t he operation parameters 
required to establish the performance shall be finalized before order and shall 
be part of order. 
(iv) As per NTPC decision regarding these trial/development orders based on EOI 
response, detailed discussion may be done with such applicants and technical 
and commercial terms and condition for subsequent techno -commercial 
proposal for identified items/equipment shall be finalized by NTPC.  
 
 
2.0 DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
a. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost from 
www.ntpctender.com & https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
b. Last date for EOI submission: one month from the date of publication. 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 3 of 17 
 
c. Response Validity:  24 months from Last Date of EOI Submission 
 
3.0 NTPC encourages submission of EOI in soft copy. For consideration of EOI, 
APPLICANTs are required to e-mail softcopy, completed in all respect, from its official 
email ID to below mentioned email IDs. If APPLICANTs also wish to submit hard copy 
of the EOI, the same can be submitted either in person or by registered/ speed post 
till the last date of submission of EOI to the following address: - 
 
To: Manan Sharma, DGM (CQA) 
Email: manansharma@ntpc.co.in  
CC to: dheerajjain@ntpc.co.in 
  
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
4.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, cancel/withdraw 
the EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, applicant 
shall not have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC bears no responsibility or 
liability of any kind in reference to the EOI. 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 4 of 17 
 
SECTION-I 
 
INFORMATION TO APPLICANT 
 
1. NTPC Limited, a Govt. of India Enterprises, NTPC group produces around 438 billion 
units of electricity annually through its cluster of gas, coal, hydro and RE based power 
stations of more than 85 GW capacity spanning across the country. 
 
2. INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
This EOI is to identify interested domestic vendors for Trial/Development order at 
NTPC for items/equipment (mentioned at Annexure -A along with minimum eligibility 
criteria) for NTPC power plants. 
 
3. THE APPLICANTS SHOULD NOTE THAT: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EOI or any query/clarifications/correspondences 
shall be in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, Application Form and Annexures given in Section -II 
shall be duly filled and sent to NTPC by the APPLICANT in soft copy. 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section -I thoroughly before filling and submitting 
the application form and annexures in Section-II. 
 
d. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two persons, with 
complete address, phone number and official email id. 
 
e. NTPC Ltd may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents 
and/ or seek clarifications from the Applicant(s) after the deadline for submission 
of response, inter alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities 
in their responses. 
 
f. Based on EOI response, NTPC will prepare a database of such domestic vendors 
and may explore the possibility of trial/development order for the identified 
items/equipment at NTPC. 
 
g. This EOI is indicative only and non-committal. 
 
 
4. ENQUIRIES AND CLARIFICATIONS 
 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via email:  
 
To: Manan Sharma, DGM (CQA) 
Email: manansharma@ntpc.co.in  
CC to: dheerajjain@ntpc.co.in 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 5 of 17 
 
 
5. CORRIGENDUM 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EOIs, NTPC may, for any reason, 
whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by an Applicant, 
modify the EOI document. The amendment will be posted on the website and will be 
binding on the Applicants and the Appl icant will give due consideration to the same, 
while they submit their EOIs, and would invariably enclose documents/ information, 
as required, on account of the amendment, as a part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its 
discretion, extend the deadline for the submission of EOIs. 
 
6. VALIDITY OF THE RESPONSES 
 
The Applicant shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to Twenty-Four 
(24) months after the response deadline (“Response Validity”). NTPC reserve the right 
to reject any response, which does not meet the afore mentioned validity requirement. 
 
NTPC may solicit the applicant’s consent for an extension of the period of validity of 
the application. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing.  
 
7. SUBMISSION OF THE RESPONSE TO EOI 
 
The responses to the EOI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail format  
Email: manansharma@ntpc.co.in  
CC to: dheerajjain@ntpc.co.in 
 
Ref. EOI No.  NTPC/CQA/EOI/2026/01             Dated: 18.03.2026 
 
Submitted to: 
Manan Sharma,  
DGM (CQA, BOP), 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, 
Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
Submitted by: 
  Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized 
signatory. 
 
The responses to the EOI should be submitted within the Deadline as mentioned in 
this document.  
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 6 of 17 
 
8. COSTS AND EXPENSES TOWARDS RESPONSE TO EOI 
 
The applicants shall bear all the costs associated with the preparation of the response 
and participation in discussions and finalization & execution of the documents related 
with this EOI, regardless of the conduct or outcome of this process. 
 
9. CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
The applicants undertake to hold in confidence this EOI and any document related or 
pursuant to this EOI and not to disclose the terms and conditions of the transaction 
contemplated hereby to third parties, except: 
 
(a) To their professional advisors; 
 
(b) To their officers, contractors, employees, agents or representatives, financiers, who 
need to have access to such information for the proper performance of their activities; 
 
(c) Disclosures required under applicable Law, without the prior written consent of the 
other parties of the concerned agreements. 
 
Provided that the applicant(s) agrees and acknowledges that NTPC may at any time, 
disclose the terms and conditions of this EOI and any document related or pursuant 
to this EOI to any person, to the extent stipulated under the applicable Law. 
 
 
 
 
 
×××× 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 7 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-II 
APPLICATION FORM & ANNEXURES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 8 of 17 
 
 
Annexure-1 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
  Date:     
Place:     
 
To, 
Manan Sharma, DGM (CQA, BOP), 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, 
Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
Subject: IDENTIFICATION OF DOMESTIC VENDORS FOR  INDIGENUOUS 
MANUFACTURING OF ITEMS/EQUIPMENT MENTIONED AT ANNEXURE-A. 
 
 
 
            Ref.:  EOI No. NTPC/CQA/EOI/2026/01,  Date: 18.03.2026 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined and 
understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC, as amended. In token 
of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed & stamped by us and 
enclosed to the response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EOI shall be 
binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per provisions and formats of the EOI,  
without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by 
NTPC in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EOI     shall be binding on 
us. We hereby expressly waive any and all claims in respect of EOI process. We confirm 
that there are no litigations or disputes against us, which materially affect our ability to 
participate or function under the obligations with regard to EOI.
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 9 of 17 
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in  
electronic format sent via email to manansharma@ntpc.co.in as per the EOI for  
consideration. 
 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of submission  
as stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC, if any. 
 
7. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the requirements 
stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and understanding. We 
would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response. 
 
8. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for acceptance 
for a period of Twenty-Four (24) months from the response deadline. 
 
 
 
 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person) 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 10 of 17 
 
Annexure-2 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT FOR 
TRIAL/DEVELOPEMNT ORDERS FOR IDENTIFIED ITEMS/EQUIPEMNT 
 
1. Name of Applicant Company: 
2. Legal status of the Applicant Company: 
3. Brief description of the Company including details of its business groups/subsidiaries/  
affiliates: 
4. Date of Incorporation: 
5. Date of Commencement of Business: 
6. Shareholding details:  
7. Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any: 
8. Existing Manufacturing facilities – locations, capacity, Complete address 
 
9. Documents to be enclosed: 
 
Technical Credentials –  
a) Supporting document for t echnology ownership for the equipment proposed for 
Indigenous manufacturing, if any. 
b) Details of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) held, patent filed/held, and MOU/agreement 
signed 
 
Financial Credentials –  
a) Copies of Audited Financial statements (Annual Reports) for preceding 3 financial years 
as on the date of EOI submission.  
i. Average Annual Turnover for preceding 3 financial years. 
ii. Net worth for the preceding financial year. 
iii. Paid up Share capital for the preceding financial year. 
 
10. We confirm that we are interested in manufacturing of item(s)/equipment (indicated at 
Annexure-A) similar to proven items/equipment and these items/equipment will be designed 
to operate on same foundation as of proven items/equipment, same electrical rating, cooling 
system, lube oil system, etc. 
11.  We agree that if Trial/ development order of items/equipment considered by NTPC, the 
same shall be considered successful based on minimum one -year successful operation of 
equipment and meeting the rated parameters as well as guarantees, as applicable. We also 
agree that successful operation definition and the operation parameters required to establish 
the performance shall be as stipulated by NTPC for respective items/equipment(s). 
12. We will share product development process, Quality checks and technical details with NTPC, 
if Trial/ development order of items/equipment(s) considered by NTPC. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 11 of 17 
 
13. We confirm that if Trial/ development order of items/equipment considered by NTPC, we will 
follow Specification requirements and Codes and Standard as specified. 
 
14. We confirm  that if Trial/ development order of equipment considered b y NTPC, B ill of 
Quantity and cost of the items/equipment with proper justification shall be shared with NTPC 
and Work/time Schedule for supply, erection and commissioning, other terms and 
conditions including payment terms shall be finalized before order. 
15. We confirm that if Trial/ development order of items/equipment considered by NTPC, if at 
any stage after/during erection/operation, equipment is not performing and 
modification/repair taking longer time in the opinion of the owner, NTPC reserves the right to 
reject the items/equipment and we will replace the same with proven items/equipment, if 
applicable, without any cost implication to NTPC. 
16. We understand that if trial operation fails, NTPC may recover the amount paid to us by 
encashing the applicable PBG (performance Bank Guarantee) submitted by us at the time 
of placement of trial order. 
17. We confirm that, we will fulfill specified minimum guaranteed life as applicable after the trial 
period for the items/equipment(s) being considered. 
18. We confirm that in case of any problem encountered during items/equipment performance, 
maximum two (2) nos. of chances shall be given for modification of items/equipment. 
Maximum time of One Year and Three Months  shall be given after commissioning of 
items/equipment for proving successful operation of the items/equipment for a period of one 
year. Time due to non -operation of equipment due to Owner’s part shall not be added in 
maximum time limit. 
 
19. We confirm that we will replace the items/equipment(s) immediately  with proven 
items/equipment(s), if applicable, in case the item(s)/equipment is(are) not found successful 
in Trial/Development order without any additional cost implication to NTPC. 
 
20. Any other documents considered relevant. 
 
 
 
 
(Sign & Company Seal) 
Authorized signatory 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 12 of 17 
 
Annexure-3 
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT FOR EACH 
ITEM/EQUIPMENT MENTIONED AT ANNEXURE-A 
 
Essential Information: 
 
1 Item/equipment description and type  
2 Detail of technical basis for giving confidence for manufacturing 
item/equipment without any collaboration, any experience of similar 
equipment etc. 
 
3 Manufacturing set up details, Annual capacity, Complete Manufacturing 
and bought item plan for item/equipment  
4 Quality checks adopted  
5 Item/equipment Rating  
 i) Details of all ratings for which applicant is interested in setting up 
manufacturing facilities/already have manufacturing facilities to be 
furnished 
ii) Rating up to which the equipment being manufactured  
iii) Reason for not going for higher rating manufacturing  
 
4 Design capabilities  
5 Engineering capabilities  
7 Local content  
8 Lead time for manufacturing facilities set-up  
9 i) Past experience/references where this equipment is supplied 
ii) Performance feedback  
11 Type testing facilities available or not  
12 Performance testing facilities available or not  
13 Spare support (Please fill period till it will be provided)  
14 If applicant is already NTPC approved vendor  
15 If applicant is approved by EPC/SG/STG/BoP vendors (Please mention 
name)  
16 Enclose the details of Domestic supply orders executed, if any  
17 Enclose the details of Export Supply Orders, if any,  
18 Details of National/International certification/accreditation, if any.  
19 Applicant is willing to execute trial order (in case applicant is 
considered for the trial order) at their own expenses. 
Note: Priority will be given to applicants who are willing to install 
the trial order  item(s)/equipment(s) without any payment from 
NTPC till completion of successful operation fulfilling all 
requirements of EOI. 
Yes/No 
20 Any other relevant information 
  
21 Details of Product Development Stage  for the 
items(s)/equipment(s) for which applicant is interested in  
trial/development order 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 13 of 17 
 
a.  Item/equipment Size  
b.  Item/equipment Type  
c.  Item/equipment Rating  
d.  Cost and Schedule  
e.  Production Capacity  
f.  Design Development  
g.  Development of manufacturing Process  
h.  Development of Manufacturing Drawing  
i.  Review of Design and Manufacturing Process  
j.  Development of QP/MQP/FQP  
k.  Tests to be carried out for sourcing of Raw material  
l.  Development of shop test facilities  
m.  Lead time for manufacturing facilities set-up  
n.  Development of Stage Inspection  
o.  Final inspection and model/shop test of Prototype  
p.  Work/time Schedule for supply, erection and commissioning  
q.  Guarantees for performance, specific period of running hours and 
warranty of the product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 14 of 17 
 
 
Annexure-A 
Sl. No Items/Equipment 
Description Minimum Eligibility Criteria 
1 
Gear Boxes for Air Cooled 
Condenser Fan drive for 
660 MW unit and above  
The applicant should have design ed, manufactured & 
supplied Gear Box as per AGMA and design thermal rating 
of the gear box shall be minimum 125 kW  for thermal 
power plants, steel, oil & gas, petrochemical, fertilizer and 
/ or any other process industry and should have been in 
successful operation at least One (1) year prior to the 
closing date of EOI. 
Trading companies or system integrators without in-house 
manufacturing facilities shall not be considered. 
 
2 
HP Heater Tude side 
safety Relief valves for 
660 MW Unit and above  
The applicant should have manufactured & supplied safety 
valves for similar applications in coal fired thermal power 
plant of 500MW unit or above, having minimum pressure, 
temperature & relieving capacity of 330 ksc, 240 deg C & 
24 TPH respectively and sho uld have been in successful 
operation at least One (1) year prior to the closing date of 
EOI. 
 
Trading companies or system integrators without in-house 
manufacturing facilities shall not be considered. 
 
3 
Condenser Vacuum 
Pumps for 660 MW Unit 
and above  
The applicant should have design ed, manufactured & 
supplied Liquid ring type Condenser Air Evacuation Pump 
for thermal power plants, steel, oil & gas, petrochemical, 
fertilizer and / or any other process industry with Free dry 
air capacity 20 SCFM at 1” of Hg (abs) at 21.1 deg C and 
should have been in successful operation at least One (1) 
year prior to the closing date of EOI. 
Trading companies or system integrators without in-house 
manufacturing facilities shall not be considered. 
4 Reheater Electromatic 
Relief Valve 
1. RH ERV Pr. (Ksc): 64-69 
2. RH Temp. (deg C):603 
3. Relieving Capacity (TPH):165-225 
4. Base material for RH SV: 9Cr-1Mo (i.e. Grade 91/92)  
5. Technical specifications are also governed by 
IBR/ASME relevant regulations/sections.  
5 
Coal Mill Motor Gear Box 
coupling 
 
1. Type of Coupling-Resilient Coupling/ Disc and Pin & 
Bush type coupling  
2. Motor coupling shall be designed to transmit a 
continuous torque-10290 Nm  
3. Gear Box Ratio-30  
4. Required Service Factor-4.0 (Min)  
5. Duty-Flexible Disc and pin & bush / resilient coupling 
suitable for heavy shock/ Impact and high inertia loads.  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 15 of 17 
 
6. Misalignment capacity-To accommodate specified 
parallel, angular and axial misalignment.  
7. Torsional characteristic-Capable of damping torsional 
shocks and electrical transients typical of large induction 
motors on mills.  
8. Environment-Erosive dust, heat, vibration  
9. The coupling shall be rated to transmit the torque and   
speed requirements of a 6-pole induction motor.  
10. Maximum Torque for mill motors shall be 300-320% of 
Rated Load torque.  
6 RO Membrane  
1. RO membrane Manufacturer-The applicant should be 
a manufacturer of industrial RO membrane of minimum 
capacity 500LPH permeate for each membrane. 
2. Membrane Details: MOC- Polyamide, Spiral wound 
type, non-telescopic, non-flexing, leak free. 
3. Average Flux-Less than 20 L/m2h 
4. Salt rejection rate# of RO stream at designed flow and 
effluent quality-Not less than 95%. 
5. Guaranteed recovery-Not less than 85% up to the end 
of 3 years of operation. 
6. Guaranteed membrane Life: Not less than 3 years 
7. Testing: As per applicable relevant standards. 
# Salt rejection rate = (1- Permeate TDS/ Feed TDS) 
*100.  
7 Slew Ring for stacker 
Reclaimer  
1.  Equipment-Stacker Reclaimer 
2.  Application-Superstructure slewing mechanism 
3.  Duty-Continuous heavy-duty service 
4.  Environment-Outdoor, dusty, coal handling in 
stockyard 
5. Ambient Temperature-0 °C to 55 °C 
6. Slew Bearing Type-Ring type roller bearing/Ball-Roller 
combination type 
7.  Slew Material-42CrMo4/EN-19 or superior 
8. Operating Speed-0.05 -0.12rpm 
9. Slewing Angle-Minimum 210 deg (+105 deg on either 
side) 
10. No of drives-Min 2 nos. 
11. Life Required-Minimum 50000 working                                               
hrs 
12. SR Boom Length-Minimum 41m 
13. Forging:  
• Slew Ring forging shall be subjected to Ultrasonic 
test. 
• DPT/MPI shall be done on Machined Surface. 
14. Size: 4 Mtr and above. 
15.The roller bearing slewing ring shall be sealed against 
penetration of water and dust. 
16. Static and Dynamic load- As per Stacker Reclaimer 
Supplier (OEM) 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 16 of 17 
 
  
8 
Mineral insulated Copper 
Conductor (MICC) Cable 
 
(Widely used in various 
applications due to their 
exceptional property of Fire 
Resistance, High-Temp. 
Tolerance & Durability) 
1. Mfg. Specification - BS EN 60702-1 & BS EN 60702-2 
2. Voltage Rating As per BS EN 60702-1 
3. Max conductor resistance, at 20 deg Cel: 7.41Ω/km (for 
2.5 sq.mm) and 12.1Ω/km (for 1.5 sq.mm). 
4. Max sheath resistance, at 20 Deg Cel: 2.53Ω/km (for 
2.5 sq.mm) and 3.35Ω/km (for 1.5 sq.mm). 
5. Minimum bending radius: 25 mm  
6. Approval: UL / FM / LPCB (Loss Prevention 
Certification Board) 
7.The vendor must be manufacturing Instrumentation, 
control/power cables for thermal power plant or any other 
process industries. 
9 
Linear Heat Sensing 
(LHS) Cable 
 
(Used for Alarm & Fire 
Detection in cable 
galleries)  
 
1. Voltage Rating: 110 V DC Maximum (For testing 
purpose only)       
2. Maximum Ambient Temperature: 45 deg Cel (for cable  
gallery) / 70 deg Cel (for conveyors) 
3. Minimum Alarm Temperature: 60 deg Cel (for cable  
gallery) /  80 deg Cel (for conveyors)    
4. Maximum Alarm Temperature: 70 deg Cel (for cable  
gallery) / 90 deg Cel (for conveyors)        
5. Conductor: Tinned Copper Coated Steel 
6. Insulation Heat sensitive polymer 
7. Conductor Diameter - 0.9 mm 
8. Approval: FM / UL / LPCB 
9. Approximate Detection Time for Small flame: 
Approximately 5 seconds 
10. Digital type LHS cable 
11. The vendor must be manufacturing Instrumentation /  
control / power cables for thermal power plant or any 
other process industries. 
10 Resin Impregnated paper 
(RIP) bushings (400 KV)  
The electrical and mechanical characteristics of bushings 
shall be in accordance with IS: 2099, IS:3347, IS:12676 & 
IEC:60137. 
Bushings from 52 kV up to 420 kV class (including 52 kV 
and 420 kV class), shall be RIP (Resin Impregnated Paper) 
Type with composite insulator. It shall be provided with Tap 
for Capacitance and Tan delta test. All  composite resin 
impregnated bushings (RIP) shall be provided 
with provision for long term storage to protect from 
moisture and rodents. The  oil side shall be provided with 
tank which can be filled with oil. Tank shall have necessary 
provision for oil filling, level gauge etc. Suitable covering to 
be provided on air side to protect from any damage. The 
arrangement shall be suitable for storage in horizontal/ 
vertical direction in outdoor location. 
The oil end dimension of RIP bushing shall be same for all 
bushings of similar voltage ratings.  
All condenser bushings shall be non-communicating type.   
Condenser type bushings shall be provided with:  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Page 17 of 17 
 
I. Oil level gauge 
II. Oil filling plug  
III. Tap for capacitance and Tan delta test   
 
Clamps & fittings shall be of hot dip galvanized steel. 
Bushing & fittings shall be provided with vent pipes that 
shall be connected to route any gas collection through the 
Buchholz relay. 
No arcing horns shall be provided on the bushings.  
LV Bushing palm shall be Silver/Tin plated. 
 
Oil end portion of 420 KV Class RIP bushings and technical 
parameters shall be as per CEA standard specification and 
technical parameters for Transformers and Reactors (66kV 
and above voltage class).  
 
Rated Voltage: 420 KV 
Rated Current (min.): up to 2000 A 
 
Lightning impulse withstand voltage: 1550 kVp 
Switching impulse voltage: 1175 kVp 
One min power frequency withstand voltage: 750: kV 
Minimum total creepage distances: 13020 mm 
11 
 
CRGO Silicon steel 
 
1. Power Transformer (66 KV and above): Core shall be 
high grade, non -ageing, cold -rolled, super  grain-
oriented silicon steel laminations known as Hi B grade 
steels or equivalent as per IS 3024. 
2. Transformer (Shunt Reactor 
& Neutral grounding Reactor): The core shall be 
constructed from high grade, non -ageing grain -
oriented silicon steel laminations-As per IS 3024. 
3. Auxiliary Transformers: Core shall be high grade 
non-ageing cold rolled super  grain-oriented silicon 
steel laminations of M4 grade or better quality- As per 
IS 3024. 
 
 
 
 
 