 
ABRIDGED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW SOLAR WITH 50MW/ 200MWH 
BESS PROJECT AT JHANSI, U.P 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
  
IFB No.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9      Date:   21.03.2026 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED (N GEL) invites online bids on behalf of NTPC UP 
Green Energy Limited (NUGEL)  from eligible bidders on Single Stage Two Envelope 
(i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) followed by Reverse 
Auction for “EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW SOLAR WITH 50MW/ 
200MWH BESS PROJECT AT JHANSI, U.P” 
  
For the detailed IFB and bidding documents please visi t at https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com or https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  or www.ntpc.co.in or  may contact : 
Sr. Manager (CS) / AGM (CS),  
NTPC Green Energy Limited,  
4th Floor, NETRA Building E-3,  
Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar,  
Greater Noida, Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP),  
INDIA, Pin-201306 
Mob No. +91-7637011073  
E-mail: madhusmritidevchoudhry@ntpc.co.in/ rajandwivedi@ntpc.co.in  
  
Document Sale Start Date and Time :03.04.2026, 17:00 hrs 
Document Sale Closing Date and Time : 17.04.2026, upto 17:00 hrs 
Bid Submission End Date and Time : 04.05.2026 upto 15:00 hrs 
Bid Opening Date and Time : 04.05.2026 at 15:30 hrs 
 
Registered Office:  
NTPC Green Energy Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003,  
Corporate Identification Number (NGEL): L40100DL2022GOI396282,  
Website: www.ngel.in 
 
 
 
                                                      Brief Scope of Work  
A) Solar Project 
Design, engineering, manufacturing, supply, packing and forwarding, transportation, 
unloading, storage, installation, testing and commissioning of 100MW Ground Mounted 
Solar PV Plant (including Supply of Modules) with 50MW/ 200MWh BESS at Jhansi, U.P 
The scope includes the following: 
1. Site  Levelling/Grading & Clearing of Vegetation, Topographical Survey, Geotechnical 
Investigation.  
2. Design and Construction of foundation & erection of Module Mounting Structure (MMS) 
for SPV panels, including fixing of PV Modules on MMS and PV Modules 
interconnection. Bidders are to provide fixed tilt tracker system only  and the bidding is 
MU based.  
3. Arranging power supply and water supply for construction purposes. 
4. Construction of Pre-Engineered type Inverter room (if applicable) with Power conditioning 
unit associated LT and HT switchgear. In case of String Inverter, Construction of Pre-
Engineered type HT Switchgear room. 
5. Construction of EHV switchyard (including power transformers) along with CMCS 
building and associated control, protection, communication, automation and other 
auxiliary systems. 
6. All associated electrical and civil works required for interfacing with grid (i.e. 
transformers, panels, protection system, cables, metering at 33kV level, grid compliance 
study as per regulation etc.), evacuation of power to 33/220kV switchyard as per 
detailed technical Specifications and applicable technical standards. 
7. Supply, Laying and termination of HT Cables within and between different blocks and 
interconnection  to 33/220kV switchyard as per specification.  
8. Performance testing for demonstration of Guaranteed Generation at 
metering/interconnection point. 
9. Module cleaning system including supply and installation of all accessories. 
10. Construction of internal roads, pathways, construction of Drainage system, periphery 
boundary wall as per General Layout and Topography, any internal / temporary fencing, 
security cabin etc.  
11. SCADA system for remote monitoring and control of Inverters with all hardware & 
software, Power plant controllers, and complete set of Weather Monitoring Station 
including cloud cover. 
 
12. Dynamic reactive power compensation equipment and Harmonic filters to comply with       
 
 
the Working Group in respect of Data Submission Procedure and Verification of 
Compliance to CEA Regulations on Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid by 
 
 
13.  
 CCTVs along with remote monitoring system with coverage of CMCS building, 100% 
periphery, entry/exit gates of the solar blocks, WMS inverter stations, etc. 
14. Comprehensive Operation & maintenance of SPV Plant along with electrical equipment, 
consumables, and spare parts for a period of Three years from the date of 
commissioning of full Project capacity. 
15. Supply of Mandatory spares. 
 
 
B) BESS Project 
The scope of work covers the following activities and services in respect of all the equipment 
& works specified for BESS portion and covered under the specifications and read in 
 in Technical Specifications 
 
This Scope of Work (SOW) outlines the broad requirements pertaining to the Battery Energy 
Storage System (BESS) portion of the complete EPC package for the Solar + BESS Project. 
All project deliverables, as specified at the Point of Interconnection (POI) to the UPPTCL 
grid, shall be met in full. The Contractor shall be responsible for the detailed design, sizing, 
supply, installation, integration, testing, and commissioning of the BESS so as to achieve 
the project-level guaranteed parameters. The SOW defined herein for the BESS portion is 
indicative and shall be construed to encompass all activities, systems, and services 
necessary to meet the overall project requirements and performance guarantees.  
 
1) Design, Engineering, Supply, Packing and Forwarding, Transportation, Unloading, Storage, 
Installation and Commissioning of grid connected Battery Energy Storage System  (BESS) 
on turnkey basis. 
2) Unloading at respective site, Supervision of Erection, Testing, Commissioning, Integration 
of above equipment with Solar plant Infra to commission a complete BESS system 
integrated with Solar plant and grid shall be included in scope of bidder.  
3) Design life of BESS system including that of battery shall be of 25 years (with 
proposal considering daily single cycle 
operation) from the date of commissioning. 
4) Batteries offered shall be rated for minimum 10,000 cycles of operation.  
5) The BESS Supplier shall take into consideration following loss parameters beyond the 
termination point and up to POI while sizing the nameplate capacity of the BESS:   
Head Loss to be considered in sizing 
Power Trafo Losses As per actual 
Transmission Line Losses 0.25% 
 
 
 
6) Bidder will guarantee minimum 92 % of dispatchable capacity at POI  across all 15 years 
starting with 100 % of rated dispatchable capacity (as mentioned above) at CoD and 95 % for 
first year.  Dispatchable capacity at the time of handover shall be minimum 92%. 
 
7) Any augmentation required for meeting above criteria shall be included in scope of 
bidder. 
 
 
Minimum nameplate rated installed capacity of BESS shall be: 
 Deliverable capacity* Min Nameplate capacity 
Block 1 200 MWh 220 MWh 
 100% of Dispatchable Capacity.  
 
8) Comprehensive O&M including associated warranty, annual maintenance contract 
(Service Level Agreement) and Insurance of BESS for period of 15 years shall be 
included in scope of bidder.  
9) Minimum monthly Round Trip Efficiency (RTE) shall be 80% including auxiliary consumption 
(Measured at BESS Termination point at 33 KV) 
10) Monthly availability to be maintained is 98%. Detailed Availability requirements and other 
details will be mentioned in detailed specifications. 
11) BESS capacity offered shall be suitable for meeting deliverable capacity at POI including 
reactive power compensation.  
12) Grid compliance study to be carried out for complete Solar + BESS system by bidder. Grid 
compliance study. If required, for each augmentation shall be in scope of bidder. 
13) Reactive power compensations and power quality compliance for entire Solar + BESS 
system upto 220 KV grid interconnection point at UPPTCL switchyard is included in scope of 
bidder. 
 
14) Aux supply system for the BESS Plant from 33 kV termination point shall be in the scope of 
Bidder The aux supply required for Battery Container at site up to final commissioning shall 
be also in the scope of Bidder.  Bidder to ensure the delivery of items at site and other works 
related to BESS plant accordingly. 
15) During operation of the BESS Plant, in case of grid failure, emergency supply requirement 
for BESS Plant shall be in the scope of Bidder. 
16) DSM Charges applicable corresponding to the metering and scheduling of BESS Plant and 
attributable to Bidder shall be paid by bidder, during the Contract duration. 
17) Bidder shall carry out Engineering to execution works of civil, erection, installation, and 
commissioning works of all the supplied equipment and equipment system(s). 
18) Bidder shall provide engineering drawings, data, process calculations, test procedures, 
Equipment layout, Drawings/Data sheets of bought out items, Performance & Guarantee 
Test procedure etc for review and approval of NTPC Green Energy Limited. 
 
 
19)  Provide documentation for design and expected performance through design 
calculations, software, design drawings, equipment drawings, and modifications to the 
existing drawings.  
20) Complete manufacturing including conducting all type, routine and acceptance tests, Pre-
assembly, (if any), testing, pre-commissioning, and commissioning and putting into 
satisfactory operation all the equipment including successful completion of initial operation. 
21) Scope shall include EMS configuration to operate BESS at various modes as per Grid 
requirement mentioned in specification and integrated operation with Solar plant and Plant 
Scheduling as per Grid/RLDC requirement during O&M. Bidder is required to provide Hybrid 
EMS which shall control the generation of Solar Plant as well BESS Plant and shall be 
properly integrated with Solar Plant.  
 