 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
Invites 
Expression of Interest 
(EOI) 
 
     for 
Exploring the vendor base and price discovery for utilization of 1 TPD of Green 
Hydrogen generated from sea water through Flue Gas Desalination from NTPC 
Simhadri.  
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS OF EOI 
 
This EOI document comprises of the following sections: 
 
 
 
(i) Section I : EOI Information 
(ii) Section II : Introduction 
(iii) Section III : Instructions to the Applicants 
(iv) Section IV : Consideration of Response 
(v) Section V : Application Form and Annexures 
1 

 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section – I 
EOI Information 
2 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
 
EOI No. NTPC/NETRA/EOI-01/2025-26 Date:  
 
 
NTPC is Inviting Expression of Interest for exploring vendor base and price discovery for utilization 1 
TPD of Green Hydrogen generated from sea water through Flue Gas Desalination from NTPC 
Simhadri. 
DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
a. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost from 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in 
b. Last date for submission of EOI :                30 days from the date 
of publishment  
c. Last date for queries/ seeking clarifications :                  15 days from the date of             
publishment  
d. Date of opening of EoI response : after 30 days from the 
date of publishment 
e. Response Validity : 3 months 
from the last 
date for EOI 
Submission 
1.0 For consideration of EOI, APPLICANTs are required to e-mail signed and scanned copy of EOI 
duly filled and completed in all respect, through e -mail mentioned hereunder. Email: 
PRABAKARANS@NTPC.CO.IN 
2.0 NTPC shall not be liable for any postal/ Mail delivery issue delays whatsoever in receipt of EOI 
documents and EOI received after the stipulated date and time shall not be entertained. EOIs 
submitted without supporting document will summarily be rejected. 
3.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, cancel/withdraw the EOI 
process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, APPLICANT shall  not 
have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC bears no responsibility or liability of any kind 
in reference to the EOI. 
3 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - II 
Introduction 
4 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
 
1.0 About NTPC 
NTPC Limited, established in 1975, is India’s largest energy conglomerate, committed to 
accelerating power development across the nation. Over the decades, NTPC has evolved into 
a dominant force in the power sector, with operations spanning the entire value chain of 
power generation. In addition to conventional fossil fuel -based generation, NTPC has 
diversified into hydro, nuclear, and renewable energy sources, significantly contributing to 
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and supporting India's clean energy transition. 
With an installed capacity of approximately 84 GW, NTPC generates over 400 billion units of 
electricity annually through its network of coal, gas, hydro, and renewable energy -based 
power stations located across the country. For more information, visit www.ntpc.co.in. 
 
2.0 Intent of the Expression of Interest (EOI) 
 
2.1 Recognizing the strategic importance of producing Green Hydrogen from seawater, NTPC has 
undertaken a pioneering initiative by establishing a 1 TPD Green Hydrogen Generation Plant at 
NTPC Simhadri. This facility utilizes Flue Gas Desalination technology to convert seawater into 
hydrogen, serving as a critical m ilestone in India’s Green Hydrogen Mission. The project not 
only promotes scalable and cost -effective hydrogen production but also supports the 
conservation of freshwater resources, reinforcing NTPC’s leadership in sustainable energy. 
7              
2.2 The purpose of this EOI is to identify interested vendors and facilitate price discovery for the 
utilization of 1 TPD of Green Hydrogen produced at NTPC Simhadri. 
 
2.3 Responses received through this EOI will be used by NTPC to develop a vendor base and 
establish pricing benchmarks for the utilization of Green Hydrogen from the Simhadri facility. 
 
 
2.4 Applicants are encouraged to submit their interest along with relevant inputs as per the formats 
and annexures provided in this document. 
 
 
3.0 Indicative Roles and Responsibilities of Parties 
The following outlines the indicative roles and responsibilities for the parties. These are 
subject to refinement during subsequent stages of engagement. 
3.1 NTPC’s Role: 
• NTPC shall provide hydrogen stored in its cascade and shall provide access to its 
hydrogen cylinder filling facility operating at 150 bar pressure, located within the Simhadri  
5 
 
 
 
 
for the selected Applicant for filling in their cascade. 
• NTPC shall set up a dedicated metered system for measurement of H2 Filled into the 
Truck/Trailer cascades  
•  NTPC will extend necessary support during the hydrogen Truck/Trailer cascade/cylinder 
filling process. 
3.2 Applicant’s Role: 
• Deploy Truck/Trailer with Cascades/cylinders in which hydrogen gas shall be filled. The 
chosen applicant shall ensure the cascades deployed have requisite license/clearance as 
per Gas Cylinder Rules.   
• Deploy adequate manpower for hydrogen filling, record-keeping, and ensuring compliance 
with Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) standards. 
 
Project Name NTPC Simhadri  
Project Location  NTPC Road, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Parawada, 
Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh 531020 
 
 28.7 KM to Visakhapatnam Airport 
 37.8 KM to Visakhapatnam Railway Station 
 
 
 
 
6 
9 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section – III 
Instructions to the Applicants 
7 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE APPLICANTS 
 
 
 
1.0 The Applicants should note that: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EOI or any query/clarifications/correspondences shall be 
in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, Application Form  and Annexures given in Section-V shall be 
duly filled and sent to NTPC by the APPLICANT in soft copy. 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section -I and Section -II thoroughly before filling and 
submitting the application form and annexures in Section-V. 
 
d. Applicants shall  mention the name and contact details of  two persons, with complete 
address, phone number and email id. 
 
e. NTPC Ltd. may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents and/ or 
seek clarifications from the Applicant(s) after the Deadline for submission of response,  
inter alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities in their responses. 
 
2.0 Enquiries and clarifications 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via e-mail:  
To: PRABAKARANS@NTPC.CO.IN 
CC to: PRABHATRANJAN@NTPC.CO.IN 
 
3.0 Corrigendum 
 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EOIs, NTPC may, for any reason, whether at 
its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by an Applicant, modify the EOI 
document. The amendment will be posted on the website and will be binding  on the 
Applicants and the Applicant will give due consideration to the same, while they submit their 
EOIs, and would invariably enclose documents/ information, as required, 
 
8 
9 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
on account of the amendment, as a part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its discretion, extend the 
deadline for the submission of EOIs. 
 
4.0 Preparation of the response to EOI 
 
                         The application of EOI shall consist of Annexure-1, 2, of Section-V. 
 
5.0 Validity of the responses 
 
The Applicant shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to six (6) months after 
the response Deadline (“Response Validity”). NTPC reserve the right to reject any response, 
which does not meet the above-mentioned validity requirement. 
 
NTPC may solicit the Applicant’s consent for an extension of the period of validity of the 
response. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing. In the event any 
Applicant refuses to extend its response validity as requested by NTPC, NTPC shall terminate 
processing of such Applicant’s responses. An Applicant accepting NTPC request for validity 
extension shall not be permitted to modify its response. 
 
6.0 Submission of the response to EOI 
The responses to the EOI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail format- 
 
To:    PRABAKARANS@NTPC.CO.IN 
CC to: PRABHATRANJAN@NTPC.CO.IN 
 
Ref. EOI No. Dated 
 
 
Submitted to:  
 
                                    S PRABAKARAN, 
Sr. Manager (Green Chemicals), NTPC Simhadri. 
Name, designation & address of the concerned officer of NTPC 
Submitted by: 
Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized signatory. The 
responses to the EOI should be submitted within the deadline at the e-mail address provided in 
the Section-I of this EOI. 
10 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
7.0 Costs and expenses towards response to EOI 
 
The Applicants shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation of the 
response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution of the documents 
related with this EOI, NTPC shall not be responsible in any way for such costs, regardless of the 
conduct or outcome of this short-listing/ selection process. 
 
8.0 Disclaimer 
                  
 This Expression of Interest (EOI) has been prepared by NTPC Ltd. for response from 
Indian/Global Company/their Consortium/Affiliates/Representatives for exploring vendor base 
and price discovery for utilization 1 TPD of Green Hydrogen generated from sea water through 
Flue Gas Desalination from NTPC Simhadri 
In submitting the response to the EOI, the Applicant certify that it understands, accepts, and 
agrees to the disclaimers on this page. Nothing contained in any other provision of the  EOI 
nor any statements made orally or in writing by any person or party shall have the effect of 
negating or superseding any of the disclaimers set forth herewith. 
*** 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-IV 
 
 
Consideration of Response 
11 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
CONSIDERATION OF RESPONSE 
 
Responsiveness check 
 
The responses submitted by Applicants shall be scrutinized and responses shall be deemed 
non-responsive for following reasons: 
 
• Responses that are incomplete, i.e., not accompanied by any of the applicable formats inter-
alia covering letter power of attorney, applicable undertakings, provided in more details 
at annexure in Section-V. 
• Responses not signed by authorized signatory and / or stamped in the manner indicated 
in this EOI. 
• Material inconsistencies in the information/ documents submitted by the Applicant 
• An Applicant submitting  more than one response to this EOI either itself or  through an 
affiliate or subsidiary company. 
• Response validity being less than that required as per Clause 5 of section-III of this EOI. 
• Response being conditional in nature. 
• Response not received by the response Deadline. 
• Response having Conflict of Interest. 
• Applicant delaying in submission of additional information or clarifications sought by 
NTPC, as applicable. 
 
All bids that shall meet the responsive check requirements set out above in this section of the 
EOI document shall be considered as responsive. In case of non-submission of relevant details 
as above, the responses may be considered as “non-responsive”, at the sole discretion of NTPC 
and will not be considered further. 
 
**** 
12 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-V  
 
Application Form & Annexures 
13 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Annexure-1 
 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
 
 
Date :   Place :   
 
To, 
……………………………. 
 
Sub.: (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
Ref.:  EOI No. , dated (the “EOI”) 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined, and understood 
in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
 
We confirm that neither we nor any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate Parent Company 
has submitted response other than this response directly or indirectly in response to the aforesaid 
EOI. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC, as amended. In token of our 
acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed & stamped by us and enclosed to  the 
response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per provisions and formats of the EOI, without any 
deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by NTPC 
in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EOI shall be binding on us. We hereby 
expressly waive any or all claims in respect of EOI process. We confirm  that there are no 
litigations or disputes against us, which materially affect our ability to participate or function 
under the obligations regarding EOI. 
14 
15 (GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in electronic 
format sent via email to: PRABAKARANS@NTPC.CO.IN as per the EOI for consideration. 
 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consistent  with all the requirements of submission as 
stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC, if any. 
 
7. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the requirements 
stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and understanding. We would 
be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response. 
 
We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for acceptance for a 
period of six (6) months from the response Deadline. 
 
8. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed “Non-Responsive” as 
stipulated in Section-IV of this EOI. 
 
9. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
10. We declare that our firm is neither put on Holiday or Black-listed by any Government / PSU 
/ Private firm or Financial Institution. 
 
11. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
 
 
We remain, 
 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person) 
 
(GLOBAL INVITATION OF EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Annexure-2 
 
 
APPLICANT’S ORGANIZATION DETAILS TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
(Note: Documents in support of meeting the respective requirement shall be submitted by 
the Applicant.) 
 
1) Name of the Company 
 
2) Legal status of the Company 
 
3) Brief description of the Company including details of its business groups/subsidiaries/ 
affiliates: 
4) Date of Incorporation: 
 
5) Date of Commencement of Business: 
 
6) Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any: 
7) Financial Data of Organization (Attach Relevant document in proof of same) 
Applicant is requested to submit Annual financial turnover during the last three (3) 
preceding financial year. Applicant to submit audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss 
account for the above three financial years. 
 
 
 Financial year 
2021-22 
Financial year 
2020-21 
Financial year 
2019-20 
Turnover    
Net worth    
Profit    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information for applicants for EOI: 
 
S. No. Parameter / Description Details 
1 Hydrogen Purity 99.99% 
2 Facility Available for Filling Truck-mounted cascade filling provision – 3 filling 
points  
3 Quantity Uptake per Day Production capacity of 41 kg/hr, equivalent to ~1 
TPD at 150 bar. 
 
 
 
Additional Information to be furnished by applicants for EOI: 
 
S. No. Parameter / Description Details 
1 Type and Capacity of Truck/Trailer 
applicant willing to deploy Applicant to furnish 
2 Cost of Green Hydrogen applicant 
willing to pay Applicant to furnish 
3 Additional Information by applicant 
(Annexure-2) Applicant to furnish 
 
 
 
17 