 DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
SIPAT SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, STAGE-III (1x800 MW) TOWNSHIP PACKAGE 
LOCATED AT 
P.O. - SIPAT, District - Bilaspur, State of Chhattisgarh, India 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.: CS-8003-364-9 Date: 01.04.2026 
GePNIC ID : 
1.0 NTPC Limited invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The brief scope of work under this package shall include the following facilities (Residential 
& Non-Residential buildings, Bulk Services, All works including Civil, Electrification, lifts, 
piping, firefighting, & Bulk services like Roads, External Electrification, Drainage, Water 
supply, Sewage network & CCTV system, STP etc. 
S.No. Description of buildings / Services No. Of 
Blocks/ 
Details 
BUILDINGS 
1 ET Hostel Room for RLI (48 Nos.) (G+7) 1 
2 CISF Barrack (80 Persons) (G+1) 1 
3 
Guest House (VIP Room – 10 & Suite Room – 5) 
(G+4) 1 
4 School (03 Halls & 06 Rooms) (G+1) 1 
5 
Vaishali Club (Executive Club) - Indoor Badminton 
Court Hall (01 no) & Dining Hall (01 no) 1 
6 
Sanskriti Club (EWA) - Indoor Badminton Court 
Hall (01 no.) & Dining Hall (01 no) 1 
7 Multipurpose Hall (CISF Colony at Janji) (G) 1 
SERVICES 
CIVIL 
1 Road/ pavement / Re-carpeting of road. 
2 Storm water Drainage/ diversion of existing drains. 
 DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
3 
Sewerage Network / Package STP for ET Hostel / 
Rerouting / diversion of existing sewerage system 
4 Compound Walls. 
5 Plumbing Network. 
6 Hard barricading of construction site 
ELECT. 
1 Internal Electrification all buildings. 
2 External Electrification. 
MECH. 
1 
Water Supply Network including Rerouting / 
diversion of existing system 
2 Lifts in Multi-storeyed buildings 
3 Fire Detection & Protection System 
4 HVAC 
IT System 
1 CCTV system for Safety Control 
The facilities indicated above are indicative and may be changed / clubbed during construction 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through a mix of debt and equity. 
4.0 Detailed specifications, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB 01.04.2026 
Documents Download Date and Time From 07.04.2026 
Last Date of receipt of queries from 
prospective bidders 
14.04.2026 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price)  
07.05.2026 Up to 1500 hrs (IST) 
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
07.05.2026 at 1500 hrs (IST) 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Nil 
Estimated cost of work in INR INR 6914.29 lakh (excluding GST) 
INR 8158.86 lakh (including GST) 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 1,00,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees One Crores only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents. 
 DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-
BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at Annexure-I 
to IFB.  
7.0  Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
8.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ using the 
option “online Bidder Enrolment”. The said website also has the detailed guidelines on 
enrolment and participation in the bidding process including Bidder Manual for online fee 
payment. 
 No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only at 
the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
10.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class-II Local 
Supplier / Non-Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
11.0    Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
 DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
12.0 Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is 
considered to be qualified. 
13.0  Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
14.0 BIDDER’S TO ENSURE THAT THE TECHNO-COMMERCIAL BID SHOULD NOT 
CONTAIN ANY PRICE CONTENT ENTRY. IN CASE, THE TECHNO-COMMERCIAL BID 
IS FOUND TO CONTAIN ANY PRICE CONTENT, SUCH BID SHALL BE LIABLE FOR 
REJECTION. 
15.0 Address for Communication: 
DGM (CS) / AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA
Pin - 201 301
Tel. No.: 0120 4946589, 4946520 
E-mail: shailendrakrsrivastava@ntpc.co.in/abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or
www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or 
www.ntpc.co.in 
16.0    Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 GePNIC Help desk No 09266039394 
Annexure-I 
Page 1 of 4 
Approved Qualifying Requirements 
for 
Township Package of Sipat Super Thermal Power Project, Stage-III (1x800MW) 
In addition to the satisfactory fulfilment of the requirements stipulated under Section ITB 
(Instructions to Bidders), the Bidder should meet the Qualifying Requirements as 
stipulated here under: 
1.0 Technical Criteria (Experience of Similar Works): 
a) The Bidder should have completed the works as mentioned below, within the
preceding Seven (07) years reckoned as on the date of Techno commercial Bid
Opening,:
i) One similar work, costing not less than Rs.55.00 Crores.
Or 
ii) Two similar works, each costing not less than Rs.34.00 Crores.
Or 
iii) Three similar works, each costing not less than Rs.27.00 Crores.
Similar work shall mean: 
Construction of RCC Buildings- Residential/ Integrated township/ Hospitals/ Hotels/ 
Offices/ Colleges/ Schools/ Shopping Complexes/ Malls, having at least one building of 
five (05) or more storeys. The work/works shall include services - Water Supply, 
Sanitary installation, Drainage, Internal Electrical installations, Lift and at least three 
(03) services out of-
(a)HVAC, (b)Fire detection and alarm System, (c)Fire Fighting system, (d)CCTV,
(e)EPABX system(equipment as well as cabling and wiring), (f)STP, (g)DG Set and
(h)Electric Sub-station (equipment as well as testing/commissioning) executed under
one agreement.
NOTES for Clause "1.0 (a)" above: 
1) Bids from Joint Ventures / Consortium and Special Purpose Vehicle shall
not be accepted.
2) The Cost of works referred above are excluding GST.
3) Each Basement and Stilt constructed in the building shall be considered as
a Storey.
4) Mummty, Lift Machine Room, Terrace water tank or any other supporting 
structure above Terrace Level shall not be counted as Storey for the stated 
purpose. 
 Page 2 of 4 
5) The work completed in the preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on the
date of techno commercial bid opening, even if it has been started earlier,
will also be considered as meeting the qualifying requirements.
6) The value of completed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring
them at current price level by adding 5% for each year on prorata basis after
the end date of completion/execution of the reference work, till the last day
of month previous to one in which NIT has been invited.
7) All services of the proposed similar work should be executed under one
agreement.
8) For contracts that include both Construction and Operation & Maintenance
(O&M), successful completion shall refer to the completion of the
construction portion of the work to the satisfaction of the client, irrespective
of the completion of the O&M period. Accordingly, the cost of O&M portion
shall not be included for evaluation purposes.
9) Reference work executed by a Bidder as a sub-contractor may also be
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified
by Project Authority specifying the Scope of Work executed by the sub-
contractor in support of qualifying requirements.
10) In case, the eligible work has been executed by a Joint venture through one 
or more individual firm(s), then cost of completed work shall be distributed 
among the individual firm(s) in proportion to their share in Joint venture and 
that will be considered as work experience for individual firm(s) for Pre-
qualification in bidding.  
2.0 Financial Criteria for Qualification : 
a) The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial
years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than
INR 25 Crores (Indian Rupees Twenty Five Crore only).
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated
turnover requirement as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event,
the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno- Commercial bid, a
Letter of Undertaking from the  Holding Company, supported by the Holding
Company's Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents,
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the
Contract by the Bidder in case of award.
 Page 3 of 4 
b) Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the Bidder's paid
up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the
Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary
(ies) and / or Holding Company and / or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies
wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and / or
Holding Company and / or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in combined
manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up
share capital. However, individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75%
(seventy five percent) of their respective paid up share capitals.
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of
the respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share
capitals.
c) In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the
Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the
following documents for substantiation of its qualification:
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding
Company.
ii) A Certificate from the CEO / CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format
enclosed with the bidding documents stating that the unaudited unconsolidated
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the
Holding Company.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder
is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating
the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO
/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the
Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno –
commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.
Notes for clause 2.0
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free
reserve. Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and
 Page 4 of 4 
share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning
ascribed to them as per Companies Act 2013.
iv) For Annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as
on seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening
shall be applicable.