NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
INTAKE AND MAKE UP WATER SYSTEM PACKAGE 
FOR 
GADARWARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT STAGE-II (2X800 MW) 
LOCATED AT 
DISTRICT NARSINGHPUR, STATE OF MADHYAPRADESH, INDIA, 
BID DOCUMENT NO.: CS-8014-132-9 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.: CS-8014-132-9 Date:03.04.2026
Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_105313_1
A. NTPC invites on-line bids for Intake and  Makeup Water System Package for
Gadarwara STPP Stage-II (2X800 MW),  at NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e.,
Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid ) from eligible
Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.
B. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK
The Brief scope of work for the subject Intake and Makeup Water System Package
for Gadarwara STPP Stage-II (2X800 MW), is as follows:
The scope of Intake water and Make up Water System package for Gadarwara stg-
II(2x800MW) includes Design, Engineering, Supply, Construction, Erection, and
Testing & Commissioning of complete Make up water pumping system & MuW
pipeline, Modifications in existing HT & LT SWGR including all Civil, Electrical and
Instrumentation works etc. as specified in technical specifications.
Salient Features of major system & equipment are as follows:
A) INTAKE AND MAKE- UP WATER SYSTEM:
1) Intake and Make-up  Water  Pumping  System  comprising  of  2x2910 m 3/hr
capacity  vertical turbine,  wet pit type MUW pumps along with electrical motor
drives to be installed in spare bays of existing MUWPH and 1x3360 m3/hr
capacity vertical turbine, wet pit type Intake water pumps along with electrical
VFD motor drives to be installed in spare bay of existing Intake water Pump
House. The pumping system shall be complete with all accessories like REJ,
motorised discharge & recirculation BFVs. Existing forced water lubrication system
consisting of three numbers (3 X 100%) of horizontal centrifugal type lubricating
 
water pumps & its drives, basket strainers, Overhead tank, etc. may be used for 
lubrication of both Intake and MUW pumps. Lubricating water booster pumps may 
be installed by Bidder in case deemed necessary.  
 
2) Make-up Water Pipeline from Make-up water pump house to Raw water 
reservoir inside plant comprising of either 
a) One (1) number buried Make up water pipe (900mm dia, 24 km route length 
mild steel pipe with3LPE “3-layer polyethylene” coating), Permanent Impressed 
Current Type Cathodic protection system for makeup water pipeline including 
requisite temporary cathodic protection system. 
or 
b) One (1) number buried Make up water pipe (900mm dia, 4 km route length Mild 
Steel pipe with wrapping coating + 800mm nominal diameter, 20km route 
length centrifugally cast DI Pipe internally cement mortar lined and externally 
coated with metallic zinc & finishing layer of bituminous paint, including  rubber 
gaskets for joint sealing. 
 
3) Transient Analysis with 30(minimum) Nos ARVs 
 
4) Three (3) nos. electrical motor operated butterfly valves at MUW pump house 
end, One (1) number  electrical motor operated butterfly valves at Intake water 
pump house end and two (2) nos. electrical motor operated butterfly valves at 
reservoir end in each makeup water branch pipe etc 
 
 
B) ELECTRICAL WORKS: 
 
All associated Electrical drives & other Electrical works for the package as below.  
1) Modifications in existing HT & LT SWGR 
2) LT MCC for feeding LT loads of ST-2 MuW package (If applicable). 
3) VFD system for proposed 1 no. of intake water pump. 
4) Power cables and control cables 
5) Cabling,Earthing & Lightning protection 
 
C) C&I WORKS: 
 
1) Measuring instruments, Motorized actuators, Instrumentation cables & PCP for MuW 
Pumping system etc.  
 
D) Associated Civil, Structural & Architectural Works for various 
Equipment/Systems. 
 
1. Laying along with Excavation and backfilling works for Make Up Water pipeline 
with 24 km route length from Make-up water pump house to Stage-I Raw 
water reservoir terminal point including crossings  across rivers, 
NH/SH/Pucca roads/ village road crossing, canals, drains/nallahs etc. by 
constructing bridges, culverts, pedestals, underground crossing with 
concrete encasement etc. 
2. Any other civil works associated with installation of pumps in existing pump 
houses, installation of valves, pipes & fittings , modification of switchgear & 
control rooms etc.  
 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
 
C. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity.
D.  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:
Issue of IFB 03.04.2026
Bidding Document No CS-8014-132-9 
Cost of Bidding Document NIL 
Documents Download Date and Time From 03.04.2026 onwards
Last date for receipt of queries 
frombidders
20.04.2026
Pre Bid Conference Date 20.04.2026 from 1100 Hrs (IST)
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
Up to 1600 Hrs (IST) on 05.05.2026
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I 
(Techno-Commercial bid) 
06.05.2026 at 1600 Hrs (IST)
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II 
(Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno-Commercial Bid. 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by 
the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC portal 
of NTPC. 
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian
Rupees Two Crore only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/.
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering
activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.
 
    
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class-II 
Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if 
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
AGM(CS)/Manager(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-9650993312/9650996556 
E-mail: vbtotle@ntpc.co.in/nimithacm@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 Appendix-I to IFB 
 Intake and Make up Water System Package Gadarwara-II (2X800 MW)      
  Page 1 of 2 
GADARWARA STPP STAGE-II (2 X800 MW) 
APPROVED QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS 
(INTAKE AND MAKE UP WATER SYSTEM PACKAGE)
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the 
following shall also apply: 
1.0  Technical Criteria: 
The bidder should have supplied, engineered / got engineered, erected / got 
erected and commissioned / supervised commissioning of at least one (1) cross-
country piping system of minimum 10 Km of single route length, of Steel pipes, of 
diameter 500 mm NB / DN or above, which should have been in successful 
operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid 
opening. 
Note: 
1. Cross-country shall refer to routing across open terrain outside Owner’s land,
involving one or more crossings like roads/rail lines/river/canal etc.
2. Single route length shall refer to the length of a single, continuous section of
pipeline (that may include pipe fittings & valves).
2.0  Financial Criteria: 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
₹46 Crores (Rupees Fourty-six Crores only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter 
of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder 
does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net 
worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, how-
ever the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be 
less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However in-
dividually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of 
their respective paid up share capitals. 
 Annexure -I 
 Intake and Make up Water System Package Gadarwara-II (2X800 MW)      
  Page 2 of 2 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of 
the respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share 
capitals. 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following 
further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding
Company.
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the
Company.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder 
is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for clause 2.0 : 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves.
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the
extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and
surplus.
(ii)  Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning
ascribed to them as per Companies Act 2013.
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be
used.