NTPC LTD 
 CPG-1/Raipur  
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Sodium Hypochlorite Solution 
as per IS-11673 (Part-1): 2019 (latest revision) - 10MEG-42. 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS  
 1.0 MEG NO. 10MEG-42 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Sodium Hypochlorite Solution as per IS-11673 
(Part-1): 2019 (latest revision) 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CPG-1/VDC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of “Sodium Hypochlorite Solution ” as per IS 
11673 (Part-1): 2019 (latest revision). 
2. The applicant should have supplied “Sodium Hypochlorite Solution” as per the 
requirements of IS 11673 (Part -1): 2019 (latest revision), to any Govt/ Semi - Govt/ PSU/ 
Power sector/ Process Industries, as per the grade  certified in its BIS certification, within 
the preceding five (05) years reckoned as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
3. The applicant should have a valid BIS license for11673 (Part-1): 2019 (latest revision). 
 
C) a) Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements: 
 
QR-1: Factory License/ Consent to operate from Pollution Control Board/ NSIC registration/ 
any other valid document as proof of manufacturing. 
QR-2: Copy of Purchase Order(s) and completion certificate/ Invoice(s)/ Receipt(s) for 
supplying “Sodium Hypochlorite Solution” as per the requirements of 11673 (Part -
1): 2019 (latest revision), to any Govt/ Semi - Govt/ PSU/ Power or Process sector 
companies. 
QR-3: Applicant should have valid BIS license as on the date of application for enlistment or 
applicant has to submit documentary proof for renewal application of BIS license.  
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all documents/ facilities can be verified/ 
assessed if required. 
b) Other Documents to be submitted: 
In addition to the documents required in support of Qualifying Requirements as stated above, 
following documents are also required to be uploaded by the applicants applying for 
enlistment:  
1. Three PO’s of the highest executed values (Refer to Note-2 of D below) of similar works 
(Refer to Note-1 of D below) during last five years from the date of application. Copy of 
Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful 
execution of supply against the PO’s. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited results for the 
preceding financial year is not available , certification of financial statements from a 
practicing chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to submit 
the certificate from practicing chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of the three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial years 
shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as on date of 
application and certificate from the practicing chartered certifying the financial parameters 
are not available.  
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license /ISO 
certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerne d excise department / any other  
statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material. 
D) NOTE-1 Similar works means: Supply of “Sodium Hypochlorite Solution” as per the 
requirements of IS 11673 (Part-1): 2019 (latest revision). 
NOTE-2 The word “executed” means the Bidder should have achieved the technical criteria 
specified in the qualifying requirements at B -2 above, even if the contract has been 
started and/ or is not completed/ closed and shall be considered below. 
Case-I: The work is started earlier (prior) to the period stipulated at technical criteria 
mentioned at B -2 above but completed within the stipulated period as mentioned at 
B-2 above. In such case, entire executed value of the relevant work under that order 
shall be considered for evaluation. 
Case-II: The work is started and completed within the stipulated period as 
mentioned at technical criteria mentioned at B-2 above. 
Case-III: The work is started within the stipulated period  as mentioned at technical 
criteria mentioned at B -2 above, but not completed as on the last date of stipulated 
period. In such cases, “In Progress” executed value of the relevant work vide that 
work order as on the date of stipulated period, shall be considered for evaluation. 
 
Remarks: Any of the above cases shall be supported by documentary 
evidence issued by the “Owner”. 
 
“Owner” means the entity which has the original requirement of the subject work 
and has initiated and awarded the work to the contrac tor (bidder) for executing the 
reference work against which the credentials have been 
submitted. And the “Owner” defined as above is not a contractor to any 
other entity for the reference work. In case, the bidder has worked as 
approved sub-contractor/ sub-vendor, he has to provide documentary 
evidence issued by the “Owner”. 
NOTE-3 Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for  supply of Sodium Hypochlorite Solution  as 
per IS-11673 (Part-1): 2019 (latest revision) - 10MEG-42. 
 
 
I. GENERAL 
The hypochlorite solution shall be a pale yellowish green, clear liquid and shall not produce any sludge or turbidity 
when mixed with water. 
Grade 1 – For household use, and  
Grade 2 – For industrial use. 
II. REQUIREMENT 
 
 
 
1) REFERENCE 
IS 11673 (Part-1): 2019 (latest revision) 
2) END USE  
Disinfection/ Water Treatment Plant 
3) Packing: 50-60 L HDPE/PVC Drums OR 25-30 MT Tankers as per site requirement. 
4) Testing Requirement:  
• Testing procedures as per IS 11673 (Part-1): 2019 (latest revision). 
• Agency must provide Test report/ certificate for all the Seven parameters (S N. (II.a) to (II.g)) 
from Government lab/ Manufacturer Lab/ NABL accredited Lab, for each consignment. 
• First two parameters will be tested at NTPC site laboratory for material acceptance. 
S.N. Characteristics Unit Requirement 
Grade 1 Grade 2 
a. Relative density (at 25o/25oC) -- 1.07- 1.18 1.20 (Min) 
b. Available Chlorine (as Cl) % by m/v 4.0- 6.0 12.5- 15.0 
c. Total Chlorine (as Cl) % by volume 4.0- 6.0 12.5- 15.0 
d. Free alkali (as NaOH), Min g/l 1.0 5.0 
e. Free Sodium carbonate 
(as Na2CO3), Min 
g/l 0.5 0.5 
f. Iron (as Fe), Max ppm 0.4 1.0 
g. Sodium Chlorate, Max % by mass Traces Traces 