Page 1 of 3 
 
NTPC Limited 
CC-OS 
EOC, Noida 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement For Vendor Enlistment For "Supply of GI Gratings/Grill" 
 
(Startup vendors are also allowed in this group for enlistment) 
 
A) MEG DETAILS  
 1.0 MEG NO. 01MEG-06 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION GI Gratings/Grill 
 3.0 RESPONSBLITY 
 
NCR 
B) Technical Criteria of QR (for applicants other than startups): 
(1)The applicant should be a manufacturer of Gratings or Grills having in house manufacturing facilities 
of Mild Steel Grating. (2)They should have facilities for galvanising OR should have tie up with other 
agencies for galvanising. 
(3)The applicant should have executed at least two orders for Mild Steel Galvanised Gratings during last 
five years from the date of submitting application 
 
Qualifying Requirement for startup applicants only: 
Applicant should be start up manufacturer of GI Gratings / GI Grills. 
C) Other Documents to be submitted (for applicants other than startups): 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, 
following documents are required to be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the 
date of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support 
of successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial 
years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, 
then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a 
proof of being manufacturer of the required material. 
Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
Note-1 - Supply of similar works means : Supply of GI  grating or Grill 
 
Note-2 - The executed value means basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against 
the reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Case(s) where PO 
value is composite(i.e. including taxes etc.),the applicant has to give item-wise break-up of Composite 
PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. 
Page 2 of 3 
 
D) (A) Conditions for Startup applicants only (not applicable for applicants other than startups): 
(i) The company should be certified as ‘Start Up; by Inter -Ministerial Board of Certification as constituted by 
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion from time to time. 
 
(ii) The Company product (GI Gratings / GI Grill s) should have been tested and cleared from a Govt. 
approved third party laboratory as per applicable standards (IS/IEC etc.). 
 
(iii) The factory set up shall be inspected by NTPC for checking the suitability for taking up manufacturing of the 
product by start up, before declaring it qualified. Inspection requirement shall not be waived off. 
 
(iv) The product shall be manufactured only in an Indian Manufacturing facilities / works.  
 
(v) No Turnover requirement shall be specified. 
 
(vi) In case of placement of Purchase Order, Start up Contractor shall furnish performance guarantee for an 
amount of 10% of the ex -works cost of the equipment(s) in addition to the contract performance guarantee 
to be submitted by the contractor. 
 
(B) Other requirements / conditions for Startup applicants: 
1. The startup applicant should upload in the “QR Documents” tab of the  Technical Parts of  online application the  
following:- 
Credential documents in support of conditions (A-i) & (A-ii) as above  
+ the Qualifying Requirement stipulated for them in the previous page. 
 
If proper documents as mentioned above are not given by the applicant, their application may not be considered any 
further. 
 
2. In the “Technical Information” part of the online application, t hey are not required to upload any Purchase Order 
(PO) / PO Execution proof as required for other type of applicants. In the “PO” tab and “Supporting Invoices / 
Completion Certificate” tabs they can upload a page mentioning the following “application from startup applicant, 
hence this is not applicable.” 
 
3. In the “Financial Information” part of the application they are not required to upload any “Profit & Loss” + “Balance 
Sheet”. In this tabs hey can upload a page mentioning the following “application from s tartup applicant, hence this 
is not applicable.”  
 
4. On application submission by the startup applicant it will be implied that they agree to the conditions given at A -iii, 
A-iv & A-vi as above. 
 
5. In case of issue of tender enquiry after enlistment the startup applicants should agree to all terms & conditions given 
in the said tenders from NTPC sites / plant / offices.  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
 
NTPC Limited 
CC-OS 
EOC, Noida 
 
Sub: Technical Specification For Vendor Enlistment For "Supply Of GI Gratings/Grill " 
 
A) MEG DETAILS  
 1.0 MEG NO. 01MEG-06 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION GI Gratings/Grill 
 3.0 RESPONSBLITY 
 
NCR 
B) Technical Specifications: 
Grating shall be duly hot dip galvanised after fabrication. Material used shall conform to IS: 2062 and 
galvanising shall conform to IS: 2629. Zinc Coating shall conform to IS: 4759. Size of Grating as per 
enquiry 
 