NTPC Renewable Energy Limited 
                                                   (A wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Green Energy Limited) 
Corporate Centre  
 
SALIENT TECHNICAL FEATURES 
 
“Salient Technical Features of the systems /equipment/ services are mentioned below. These Salient 
Technical Features are mentioned only to facilitate the prospective bidders to prima-facie understand 
the requirements under the tender and shall not in any way limit or alter the scope of work and 
technical features/specification of equipment/ systems/ services covered in the Bidding Documents. 
Detailed provis ions in regard of scope of work and technical features/specification of equipment/ 
systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Document shall be final and binding.” 
Salient technical features of the proposed project are as follows: 
Name of the Project 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 900MW (3x300MW) 
GRID CONNECTED SOLAR PV PROJECTS AT MANDSAUR, 
MADHYA PRADESH 
Project capacity 900 MW (3 x 300MW) 
Block/Plot capacity 
 
3 Blocks of 300MW 
 
 
1. There are three Solar Blocks namely Block-1, Block-2 and Block-3 of 300MW each, which are 
grouped into two clusters. Cluster-1 comprises of a single 300MW Block (Block -1) and 
Cluster-2 comprises of two 300MW Blocks (Block -2 and Block -3). Bidders may bid fo r 
Cluster-1 (One block) or Cluster-2 (One or Two Blocks) or both. 
2. Complete Design, engineering, manufacturing, supply, packing and forwarding, transportation, 
unloading storage, installation, testing and commissioning of Solar Photo Voltaic Plant 
including supply of Solar PV Modules. 
3. MMS as per Technical Specification – Tracker based (Cost per MU Based Bidding) 
4. String / Central Inverter with Maximum Power Point Tracking technology along with associated 
cables, cabling, Transformer & Switchgears. 
5. SCADA, Weather Monitoring System, and CCTV system. 
6. Electrical works and associated switchgear equipment as per technical specification. 
7. Evacuation of power up to Owner’s 33kV Switchgear of 33/400kV Substation 
8. Module cleaning system including supply and installation of all accessories. 
9. All associated civil works for Solar plant and power evacuation up to Owner’s 33kV Switchgear 
of 33/400kV Substation 
NTPC Renewable Energy Limited 
                                                              (A wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Green Energy Limited) 
                                                             Corporate Centre 
 
10. Dynamic reactive power compensation at PoI as per CEA technical standards and working 
committee report. 
11. Facilitation for Grid compliance study of Solar projects 
12. Comprehensive O&M for 3 years from date of commissioning of full capacity 
13. Supply of mandatory spares 