NTPC Limited
Vendor Development Cell (VDC)
Subject: Qualifying requirement & other details for Centralised vendor enlistment –
A) Details of MEG (Material Enlistment Group)
MEG No 6MEG-01A   (Category-1)
MEG Description
Responsibility Centre VDC
B)
1
The applicant should be manufacturer of vertical type coal pulverizers and should have 
supplied such coal pulverizers to at least two coal fired units, each of 200 MW or higher 
capacity, located at two different power stations and which are in successful operation 
for at least two years as on the date of application
Option-2:
a) The applicant should be manufacturer of grinding rolls of Raymond Bowl type
(XRP/HP) coal pulverizers & they should have supplied at least 75 nos. (Seventy
five nos.) of grinding  rolls of  36 inch (Thirty six inches) or higher size (& of
same type** which applicant wants to be enlisted) with matching bull ring
segments, for Raymond Bowl type (XRP/HP) coal pulverizers during the last five
years in India.
AND
b) The applicant should have supplied 39 nos. of grinding rolls (Raymond Bowl
type XRP/HP) of any type** & any size between 28 inch to 63 inch & they
should have performed for 6000 hours and more in India.
AND
c) 12 nos. of grinding rolls supplied by the applicant of size 28 inch or higher and
type** for which the applicant wants to get enlisted should have performed for
6000 hours or more in India.
AND
d) Applicant should either himself or through a company/agency in which he has
controlling stake, own following manufacturing & testing facility for use by the
applicant for manufacturing of the grinding rolls
Manufacturing facilities 
i) Capability to manufacture Grinding rolls of size up to 29 inch.
ii) Bull ring segments Induction / cupola /induction arc furnace for melting 
iron two Tons or above
iii) Machining facilities for inside bore
iv) Centrifugal Casting machine to accommodate grinding rolls of 2000kg 
(in case applicant wants to get enlisted for Ni-hard type rolls).
Testing Facilities
i) Testing Chemical composition ii) Magnetic Particle testing machine 
Option-3
a) The applicant should be an Indian manufacturer of grinding rolls & they should 
have supplied at least 24 numbers of Grinding Rolls of any type & any size for 
vertical type Coal pulverizes as on the date of application.
And
b) The applicant should have ongoing collaboration with a manufacturer who 
meets all the qualifying requirements as stipulated at clause at option-2 (in 
India or abroad)
And
c) The applicant s hall furnish a deed of joint undertaking (DJU) with his 
collaborator for successful performance of the grinding rolls to be offered by him. 
The deed of joint undertaking shall be submitted along with the enlistment 
application, failing which enlistment application shall not be considered.
And
d)
e)
And
f) The applicant should give a certificate that his collaborator is not applying for 
enlistment. If it is found that his collaborator is already enlisted or the 
collaborator is also applying for enlistment, then the application of the applicant 
adopting this option-3 shall not be considered. 
Notes
i. **-Type of Grinding Roll means “Sinter Cast” / “ Duocast”/ “Xwin”/ “High
Performance” (“HP”) / “Ni-hard”/”High chrome”/”Carbide inserts” etc. Type
may be broadly defined as per the base constituents of material used for
production of grinding elements and process of production such as Ni-hard or
Sintercast or Duocast or XWIN or Carbide Inserts or High Performance or High
chrome type etc.
ii. For consideration of Type of Grinding Roll against qualifying requirement
clauses (a) and (c)  of option-2, the type of grinding roll should be mentioned at
one place anywhere either in the Purchase Order or in invoice or in test certificate
or in Quality plan or in Performance certificate related to that PO.
Even if the type description is not given in PO or invoice, then also type can be
considered from any one of the other documents as mentioned above.
iii. The applicant must declare the type of grinding roll for which they want to get
enlisted in NTPC in this enlistment group. If they want to get enlisted for more
than one type, then they must give separate set of documents for all those types.
iv. Last five year as given at clause 2(a) shall be reckoned from the date of final
submission of online application in NTPC enlistment portal & supply invoice
dates should fall in this period, irrespective of the date of purchase orders.
v. To be considered as qualified, an applicant has to meet all the requirements of either
of Option-1 or Option-2 or Option-3 .
C) Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements:
Option-1 :- Self declaration along with documentary evidence like details of 
manufacturing facilities/ Pulverizers supplied, details of their operation etc.
Option-2:-
Clause (a) - Details of Manufacturing, ISO certificate etc. along with Purchase 
orders received from Customers, invoices/ Order completion certificate as applicable 
etc.
Clause (b) & Clause (c):- Purchase orders & related performance certificates 
issued by the Customer. Performance certificate should show running hours completed 
Clause (d):- Declaration on manufacturing & testing facilities, proof of ownership 
of the Facilities etc. 
Option-3
Clause (a)- Details of manufacturing facilities, Copies of Purchase Orders & 
related execution proofs like invoices etc.
Clause (b) & (c):-
i) Deed of Joint undertaking as asked ii) copy of Collaboration agreement
ii) Proofs of Collaborator meeting the requirements given in option-2
Clause (d) - Declaration on manufacturing & testing facilities, proof of ownership 
of the facilities etc.
Clause (e) & (f) :- Declarations as asked by the applicant in their letter head 
In addition to above documents Applicant must give declaration about the type 
of grinding roll for which they want to get enlisted in NTPC in this
enlistment group (Notes-iii above ). This declaration must be given in 
their letter head.
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also all documents/ facilities can be verified/ 
assessed if required. 
D) Other documents to be submitted:
E) Other 
Note-1
Definition of Similar work:
Other 
Note-2
The executed value means basic value of quantity of similar works executed / supplied 
against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on the date of 
application). Where PO value is composite (i.e., including taxes etc.) the applicant to give 
item-wise break up of composite PO mentioning basic value, taxes etc.
NTPC LTD.
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR PROCUREMENT 
OF WEAR PARTS FOR RAYMOND (XRP/HP) TYPE 
COAL PULVERISERS
Document   No.-----------------(Rev-----------) 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR PROCUREMENT 
OF WEAR PARTS FOR RAYMOND (XRP/HP} TYPE 
COAL PULVERISERS
1.0.0 Intent of the Specification
The intent of the specification is to procure "wear parts"(Grinding Rolls and Bull Ring
Segments) for XRP-(Mill model to be specified by the Station) type coal pulverisers of
__________ Make(Mill  make  to  be  specified   by  the  Station)  operating  at   NTPC
___________ (Station name to be specified by the Stations). 
It is not the intent to specify completely herein, all aspects of material selection and 
manufacturing process, nevertheless, the wear parts shall conform in all aspects to high 
standards of material quality , manufacturing process and workmanship and shall be 
capable of performing in continuous commercial operation, in a manner acceptable to 
the Owner, who will interpret the meaning of specification, drawings and shall have right 
to reject or accept any work or material which in his assessment isnot complete tomeet 
the requirement of this specification. 
Bidder is requested to carefully examine and understand the specification and. seek 
clarifications, if required , to ensure that they have understood the specification . The 
Bidder's offer should not carry any sections like clarifications, interpretations and/or 
assumptions. 
2.0.0 Project   Information
Name of the Project 
No. and size of Units
Type of Coal Pulverisers
No. of coal Pulverisers per Unit
Total cumulative pulverizes running hours 
for which wear parts to besupplied
(Name to be specified by the Station)
(Number and size of Units to be
specified by thestation))
XRP/HP-(Mill model to be specified by 
the Station)
(To be specified by the Station)
(To be specified by the Station)
3.0.0 Applicable Drawings
The draw ings listed below and forming part o f the specification ar e for Bidder's
information. All these drawings are indicative of Owner's requirement to enable the 
Bidder to make a suitable offer . It shall, however, be responsibility of the Contractor to 
ensure fitment of the supplied material.
i. Drawing No
ii. Drawing No.
Note: (Stations to include relevant drawings)
Any variation/alteration from the listed drawings shall be clearly brought out in the 
technical deviation schedule with implicat ions, if any . Such variat ions may be 
acceptable, after assessment of its implication and shall be subject to Owner's approval.
4.0.0 Scope of the Proposal
The scope of the proposal shall include  manufacturing ,  testing, packaging, 
transportation, delivery on F.O.R (site) basis of wear parts of XRP/HP-( Mill model to be 
specified by the Station) type coal Pulverisers  comprising of following: 
i. Grinding Rolls
ii. Bull Ring segments
The scope of proposal shall also include superv1s1on of installation (supervision of 
installation of 1st set of wear parts in mill) of above wear parts. 
4.1.0 The scope of supply of Contractor shall include supply of mill wear parts that is set 
of grinding rolls and set of bull ring segments  for  cumulative -------- hrs (to be 
specified by station) of coal pulverisers such that these wear parts are compatible with 
each other.
Note 2 ;- Together three nos. g rinding rolls required for one pulveriser shall form "One set of Grinding 
rolls" and bu ll ring segment qua ntity req uired f or one pu lveriser shall form "One set of Bull Ring 
Segments" . 
4.2.0 The quantity of wear parts shall be such that cumulative pulverizers running hours
(to be specified by station) of mills can be achieved with pu lveriser capacity not less 
than 90% of its maximum capacity at rated fineness (Refer Note - 3) for the specified 
range of coals . The Bidder shall guarantee the life of each type of wear part (i.e. 
grinding roll, bull ring segments) and this guaranteed life of respe ctive wear parts shall 
be the basis for calculating the quantity of wear parts . The guarantee for wear parts life 
shall be in line with theguarantee requirement specified in subsequent sections. 
Note 3: The rated fineness not less than 70% through 200 mesh and 99% through 50 mesh.
4.3.0 In the bid proposal the Bidder is required to offer the wear parts in such quantities 
that the cumulative guaranteed wear life for each type of wear part (i.e. grinding rolls
and bull ring segments) is not less than the number of cumulative running hours as 
specified (to be specified by station) . The required quantity/sets of wear parts shall be 
arrived at by rounding off the fractional part of the set to next higher whole number. 
4.4.0 The wear life guarantee for each set and type of wear parts shall be from within 
the range of 6000 Hrs. to 12000 Hrs. and the quantity of wear parts shall be calculated 
based on guaranteed wear life from within the above range only. An example for 
arriving at number of sets of wear parts for the purpose of Bidder's quotation is given 
below at Table-1: 
Example
Table-I 
S.No. Description Bidder A Bidder B
1. Number of coal pulverisers as per specification 8 8
2. Guaranteed Wear Life of each set of grinding 
rolls
6000 8000
3. Guaranteed Wear Life of each set of bull ring 
segments
6000 18000
4. Number of sets of grinding rolls required to be
quoted for cumulative running hours of 200000 200000/6000=
33.33 i.e. 34 sets
200000/8000=
25 sets
5. Total number of sets of bull ring segment 
required to be quoted. 200000/6000=
33.33 i.e. 34 sets
200000/8000=
25 sets
5.0.0 Evaluation Criteria
The bids guaranteeing wear life less than 6000 Hrs. will not be considered for 
evaluation and shall be rejected . Further no evaluation credit will be given for 
guaranteed wear life in excess of 12000 Hrs. 
The evaluation of the bids shall be based on the total price of (a) sets of bull ring 
segments and (b) sets of grinding rolls quoted by the Bidder in accordance with the 
clause 4.0.0 "Scope of the Proposal". 
6.0.0 Material of Construction
The material of construction of wear parts shall be selected taking into account highly 
abrasive nature of coal resulting from coal contamination with silica sand and Alpha-
quartz. The coal and ash data is specified elsewhere in the specification and same shall 
be considered for selection of wear part material and offering guarantee for wear life.
SI. No. Name of Wear Part Material
1. Bull Ring Segments Ni Hard, High Chrome etc.
2. Grinding Rolls Ni Hard, High Chrome
carbide insert, sinter cast etc.
7.0.0 Coal Characteristics
The range of coal and ash characteristics which is likely to be supplied to the mills is 
enclosed at Annexure-1. Bidder is requested to familiarize themselves with the detailed 
coal and ash characteristics, if required. 
The material of construction of wear parts shall be selected taking into account highly 
abrasive nature of coal resulting from coal contamination with silica sand and Alpha-
quartz. Bidders shall consider the effect of these shale , sand stone and alpha quartz 
content for offering guaranteed wear life of Mill wear parts. 
8.0.0 Guarantees
The quantity of wear parts shall be such that cumulative running hours operation of mills 
(station to specify) can be achieved. 
The Bidder shall guarantee the wear parts for wear life and fitment of the wear parts in
the existing mills and furnish these guarantees in Schedule-I.
8.1.0 Guaranteed Wear Life;- The "wear parts", i.e. each set of grinding rolls and each 
set of bull ring segments shall be guaranteed for wear life in number of hours of mill 
operation with mill capacity not less than 90% of its maximum capacity at rated fineness 
(refer note-3) for the specified range of coals during this period. 
8.1.1 The guarantee on wear life shall be provided for each type of wear part separately 
(i.e. Grinding rolls and bull ring segment) . The guaranteed wear life for each set of 
grinding rolls, each set of bull ring segments shall be within the range of 6000 to 12000
"Operating Hours of mill" (with mill capacity not less than 90% of its maximum capacity 
at rated fineness (refer note-3) for the specified range of coals). Bidders offering wear 
life guarantee less than 6000 operating hours shall not be considered for evaluation. 
Further, Bidder's offering wear life guarantee higher than 12000 Operat ing Hours shall 
not be given any evaluation credit beyond 12000 Hrs. The guaranteed wear life of set of 
bull ring segments shall be 'in multiples of wear life guaranteed for set of grinding 
rolls(i.e. If wear life of set of grinding rolls is guaranteed as 6000 Hrs , the life of set of 
bull ring segments shall either 6000 Hrs. or12000 Hrs.).
8.1.2 The mill wear part guarantee shall be valid for complete range of coal and ash 
characteristics specified in this specification . No correction in guaranteed wear life 
shall be allowed on the basis of YGP index.
8.2.0 Wear Part Warrantee ;- The Bidder shall guaranteethe wear life of wear partsin
number of mill operating hours(refer Note4). The guarantee/warrantee on wear life shall 
be demonstrated on all thepulverisers.
Note 4:Operating Hours of mill for the purpose of wear part guarantee are defined as hours of mill operation ator 
near to itsMaximum Capacity but not less than 90% of maximum mill output at mill fineness not less than 70% thru 
200 mesh and 99% thru 50 mesh. 
8.3.0 Demonstration of Pulverisers Wear Part Guarantee:- 
8.3.1 The guarantee/warrantee for the life of mill wear parts shall be demonstrated by 
the contractor during Guarantee Trial Period (GTP). The GTP shall commence 
after successful operation of the pulveriser is established continuously for a period 
of not less than 12 hours at or near to its maximum capacity and fineness not less 
than 70% thru 200 mesh and 99% thru 50 mesh with the newly installed wear 
parts. The GTP shall end as soon as first set of grinding rolls and first set of bull 
ring segments have completed their actual wear life or the guaranteed wear life 
(whichever is earlier) in first fourpulverisers.
8.3.2 Each type of wear parts (i.e. set of grinding rolls and set of bull ring segments) 
shall be considered to have completed their guaranteed/warranted wear life when 
during GTP the first set of these parts has successfully demonstrated their 
capability to achieve at least 90% of the maximum pulveriser grinding capacity (at 
Pulverised Coal Fineness not less than 70% thru 200 mesh and 99 % thru 50 
mesh) during the guaranteed wear life of wear parts . In case the capacity of the 
pulveriser falls by more than 10% and/or pulverized coal fineness falls below 70%
thru 200 mesh or 99% thru 50 mesh necessitating replacement of particular type of 
wear part (i.e. set of grinding rolls and/or set of bull ring segments) to restore the 
capacity and/or fineness, the wear(set of wear parts) partshall be deemed to have 
outlived its wear life. The capacity of mill shall be tested on all mills during the GTP 
at following intervals, viz. (i) at commencement of GTP, (ii) at completion of 25% of 
guaranteed wear life of grinding rolls, (iii) at completion of 75% of guaranteed wear 
life of grinding rolls and (iv) at the end of wear life of grinding rolls. In case the wear 
life of set of bull ring segments is guaranteed more than the guaranteed life of 
grinding rolls the capacity test on mill shall continue for second set of grinding rolls 
as per SI. No. (ii) , (iii) and (iv) above until the wear life of bull ring segments is 
achieved.
Note: 5:  No allowance will be given for Operation and Maintenance practices, while applying this criteria.
8.3.3 Further, in case any of the wear parts has worn out to such an extent that either 
the normal or safe operation of the pulveriser is jeopardized if this part is not 
replaced/repaired or continuous use with this part may lead to exposure or wear of 
other parts which are not meant for the purpose of checking the shortfall in wear 
life, even if there is no reduction in pulveriser rated capacity or fineness, then the 
part shall be deemed to have outlived its wearlife.
8.4.0 Liquidated Damage for Shortfall in Guaranteed/Warranted Wear Life:
8.4.1 Liquidated damages shall be levied for shortfall in wear life of wear parts for each 
set of wear parts separately. For the purpose of ascertaining the wear life achieved 
following method shall be adopted:
8.4.2 The wear life of set of grinding rolls and bull ring segments shall be recorded for 
all pulverisers. The average wear life of first sets of grinding rolls and bull ring 
segments in four pulverisers in which the wear parts have completed their wear life 
earlier than other pulverisers shall be considered as wear life achieved for that 
Purchase Order.
Table-II below gives an example where wear life of grinding rolls and bull ring 
segments for a given Purchase Order is calculated initially for the purpose of 
establishing Liquidated Damage.
Table- II 
SI.
No.
Description Guaranteed 
wear life
Life achieved for first set of 
grinding rolls/bull ring 
segments
Average life
1. 1st four sets
of wear 
parts whose 
life  has 
been
ascertained
11500
Mill 1 Mill3 Mill5 Mill6
12500 12000 10500 11000 = (12000+12000+10500+11000)/4=11375
Table - II Shows life of first four set of grinding rolls achieved in four mills. As per 
records in Mill Nos. 1 and 3, the first set of grinding rolls have met their guaranteed 
life, where as in mill 5 and 6 , the life achieved by grinding rolls is only 10500 hrs. 
and 11000 hrs. respectively , against the guaranteed life of 11,500 hrs. While 
calculating average life , for all those sets who exceeded guaranteed life and 
achieved life of 12000 hrs. and more , the life shall be taken as 12000 hrs . and for 
those who have not met the guaranteed life , actual life shall be taken. Therefore 
for the purpose of establishing the wear life achieved by the first four set of wear 
parts, average of life achieved in mills # 1 ,3,5 and 6 shall be considered  i.e .  
(12000 +12000 + 10500 + 11000)/4 = 11375 Hrs.). 
8.4.3 In case the wear parts do not fulfill the guaranteed wear life the credit shall be 
provided after the end of GTP to the Employer at the rate of one and a half times 
the shortfall worked out for each set of grinding rolls and each set of bull ring 
segments. For example should a wear part set has a price of Rs 100000 (Rupees 
One lac) and the wear life guaranteed for the wear part is 11500 Hrs. When the 
average life as calculated above is 11375 hrs, then a credit of Rs . (1,00,000 x 1.5
x125)/ 11375 = Rs. 1648.35 would apply towards the Employer for each set of 
wear parts. This credit shall apply to all wear parts by multiplying the credit per set 
of wear part with total number of wear part sets and shall be considered as 
Liquidated Damaged for shortfall in wear life. The wear part credit shall be worked
out separately for grinding rolls and separately for bull ring segments. This shall be used for 
computing additional BG if any, required to be taken from the   contractor.
8.4.4 At the end of GTP ifit is found that any ofthe wear part sets have achieved life of 50 % or 
less than the guaranteed wear life the Contractor shall replace the wear part set free of
cost and commence the GTP again till such time the wear parts are able to achieve wear
parts life higher than 50% of wear life. For wear life between 50% and 100% the liquidated
damages as described above shall apply.
It must be clearly understood thatthe calculation of averagelife during GTP is only
for the purpose of estimating the amount BG thatis to be takenfrom the party.
Actual L.D shall be calculated foreach set separately basedon the actual life it has 
achieved and the amount shall be recovered. In the above case actual L.D shall be 
(100000x1.5x500)/10500=Rs. 14285.7 for the set of rolls usedin Mill 5 
8.4.5 In case the wear parts are supplied in more than one lot the liquidated damages as per
the above shall be leviedfor each lot of wear parts.
8.5.0 Fitment Guarantee
8.5.1 Fitment of the supplied material in the identified pulverisers is the responsibility of Contractor 
and same shall be guaranteed by the Bidder . In case it is found that the supplied material (wear 
parts) do not fit into the pulveriser and/or the normal and safe operation of the pulveriser cannot be 
sustained with the supplied wear parts during the GTP the Contractor shall within one week (
Respective Projects to specify  the  desired duration) supply fresh lot of modified wear parts 
(not less than 25% of the quantity to replace the wear parts which have failed in fitment and/or have 
restricted normal/safe operation of pulverisers . The balance sets of such wear parts shall be 
supplied within one month (Respective Projects to specify the desired duration ). In case the 
normal/safe operation is jeopardized due to wear of grinding rolls and bull ring segments the same 
shall be considered under the guarantee for wear life and not under fitment guarantee.
9.0.0 Quality Assurance & Inspection
9.1.0 Bidder shall provide the necessary information on Quality Assurance Program and submit 
a manufacturing quality plan in line with reference quality plan attached with this technical 
specification. Reference quality plan has to be followed completely. 
Manufacturing quality plan shall be accompanied with reference standards / documents, 
procedures and specifications.
9.2.0 The approved quality plan shall indicate NTPC witness points (customer hold 
points) for which the contractor shall give 15 days inspection advance notice for 
undertaking inspection. 
9.3.0 INSPECTION AT SUPPLIERS WORK
Tests and inspection are to be conducted in the presence of NTPC RIO 
representatives as per approved Quality plan. The representatives shall have 
free access at all times while the work on the contract is being performed. The 
supplier shall offer all reasonable facilities without charge to satisfy the 
Inspection agency that the items are confirming to this specification.
9.4.0 TEST CERTIFICATES:
All the Grinding Rolls shall be identified with a serial number punched on the 
non-wearing surface of roll. The Bull ring segments set shall be identified by paint for 
serial number and set number on working face of each casting of the set. Supplier shall 
supply 3 copies of test certificates with following information for rolls and bull ring 
segments: 
1. NTPC order number
2. Supplier's reference and name
3. Heat no./ Roll no.
4. Drawing no., Material code
5. Consignment/Identification no. 
(NOTE FOR STATIONS)
The technical specification includes following form which needs to be duly filled by the bidder and submitted along 
with bid proposal: 
Schedule-I ( Guaranteed Declaration ) , Schedule-II ( Technical data sheets), Schedule-Ill ( Information regarding 
quality assurance program ) , Schedule-IV ( Schedule of rates and prices) . Schedule -V (Delivery schedule),
Schedule - VI ( Qualifying requirements ). 
Stations are requested to include these forms in the bidding documents and ensure that these formsare submitted 
along with the bid. Stations may like to add additionalforms and other term andconditions of contract while preparing 
the Bidding Documents. 
(Annexure-1)
COAL CHARACTERISTICS
Proximate Analysis  
Moisture 
Ash  
HGI 
YGP
Range
------------To---------- % 
------------To---------- % 
------------To---------- % 
------------To---------- %
Ash Analysis
Silica
Alumina
------------To---------- % 
------------To---------- % 
Note : Plant specific range of coal properties to be specified by the respective stations . 
 A DDENDUM TO THE RQP OF GRINDING ROLL  AND RQP OF BULL RING SEGMENT 
 The following points are to be read in conjunction  with the RQP attached below. 
1. Th
e check for  Hardness  test  envisaged in Clause 4.1 of the QP No: 999-QVM-P-499; REV,-0
s
hall be V ( Verification of report ) in place of W (Witness) by NTPC.
2. The check for  Hardness  test  envisaged in Clause 3.1 of the QP No: 999-QVM-P-500; REV,-0
s
hall be V ( Verification of report ) in place of W (Witness) by NTPC.
3. A note is added as follows:
NOTE : Based on the manufacturing process adopted by the vendor the clause of  “100%
a
dherence to RQP “ may be relaxed.




SCHEDULE-I
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR PROCUREMENT OF 
WEAR PARTS FOR RAYMOND TYPE (HP/XRP mills) COAL PULVERISERS
(Name of Project), Stage), (Number and Size of Units)
Tender Document No. (To be specified by respective Projects) 
(GUARANTEE DECLARATION)
Bidder's Name & Address NTPC-Name and Address 
(To be indicated by Project) 
Dear Sir,
We declare that the wear life of wear parts, their fitment and material specification for wear parts 
offered in this bid are guaranteed  by us. We further declare that in the event of any deficiencies in 
meeting the guarantees indicated below as establ ished in accordance  the bidding document s, you
may at your discretion accept the wear parts after asse ssing the liquidated  damages  as specified in 
clause 8.4.0 of bidding documents or reject the wear parts and recover the payments already made.
SI.No. Guaranteed Parameter Guaranteed Figures
1.0 Wear Life of Wear parts
1.1 Wear life of each set ofgrinding Rolls in 
Operating Hours asper clause8.0.0
1.2 Wear life of each set of bull ring 
segments inOperatingHour s 
as per clause 8.0.0
2.0 Guarantee for Fitment As per bidding document Clause
8.5.0 
Date: 
Plate:
(Signature)...................................
(Printed  Name) ........................... 
(Designation)  ..............................
(Common Seal) ...........................
Note : Any variation to the stipulated conditions under which guarantees are to be met will not 
be permitted and Bids with such variation are liable to be rejected.
SCHEDULE-II
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION  FOR PROCUREMENT OF
WEAR PARTS FOR RAYMOND TYPE (HP/XRP mills) COAL  PULVERISERS
(Name of Project), Stage), (Number and Size of Units) 
Tender Document No.(Tobe specified byrespective Projects)
(TECHNICAL DATA SHEETS)
Sl. 
No.
Description Grinding Rolls Bull Ring Segments
01 Name of Manufacturer
02 Location of Manufacturing Unit
03 Model of Coal Pulveriser
04 Number of Pulverisers
05 Number of sets
06 Wear life of each set
07 Weight of each item (Bidder to provide 
item wise list)
08 Weight of each set
09 Compliance to specified dimensions
10 Name of material Yes Yes 
11 Surface hardness
12 Physical properties of material
13 Chemical composition of material
(Broadly)
Date: 
Place:
(Signature)…………………..
(Printed Name ) ……………
(Designation)……………….
(Common Seal)……………..
SCHEDULE· III
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR PROCUREMENT OF
WEAR PARTS FOR RAYMOND TYPE {HP/XRP mills) COAL PULVERISERS
(Name of Project), Stage), (Number and Size of Units) 
Tender Document No. (To be specified by respective Projects)
(Information regarding Quality Assurance Program)
Bidder's Name & Address NTPC-Name and Address
(To be indicated by Projects)
Dear Sirs, 
We hereby provide the necessary information on Quality Assurance Program contain ing the 
overall Quality management and Procedures, which we propose to follow during various stages of 
manufacturing the specified wear parts. 
Date: 
Place:
(Signature)………………
(Printed Name)………….
(Designation)…………..
(Common Seal)............
Note: Continuation sheets of like size and format may be used as per Bidder's requirement and 
shall be annexed to this Attachment.
SCHEDULE- IV
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR PROCUREMENT OF
WEAR PARTS FOR RAYMOND TYPE (HP/XRP mills) COAL PULVERISERS
(Name of Project), Stage), (Number and Size of Units) 
Tender Document No. (To be specified by respective Projects)
(Schedule of Rates and Prices)
Bidder's Name& Address NTPC-Name and Address
(To be indicated by Projects)
1. Grinding Rolls
2. Bull Ring Segments
Note: Number of sets shall be quoted a s per clause 4.0.0
Date:
Place:
(Signature)..................
(Printed Name) ……..
(Designation)............ 
(Common Seal).......... 
SCHEDULE-V 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR PROCUREMENT OF
WEAR PARTS FOR RAYMOND TYPE (HP/XRP mills) COAL PULVERISERS
(Name of Project), Stage), (Number and Size of Units) 
Tender Document No. (To be specified by respective Projects)
(Delivery Schedule)
Bidder's Name & Address NTPC-Name and Address
(To be indicated by Projects)
1. Grinding Rolls
2. Bull Ring Segments
Date:
Place:
(Signature)......................... 
(Printed Name)..................
(Designation).....................
(Common Seal)..................