Page 1 of 3 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of General Purpose manually operated CI 
NRV/Check Valves 
 
(Startup vendors are also allowed in this group for enlistment) 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 18MEG-01(C) 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION General Purpose Manually operated CI NRV/Check Valves 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR  (for applicants other than startups): 
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer of CI NRV/Check valves 
2. The applicant should have supplied NRV/Check as per IS 5312 or equivalent International Standard to 
industries during the last five years from the date of application. 
 
Qualifying Requirement for startup applicants only: 
Applicant should be start up manufacturer of valves. 
C) Other Documents to be submitted (for applicants other than startups): In addition to the documents 
required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, following documents are required 
to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the date of 
application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then 
certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof 
of being manufacturer of the required material. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
NOTE-1 - Similar works means: Supply of CI NRV/Check Valves as per IS 5312 or equivalent International 
Standard to industries. 
NOTE-2 - The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against the 
reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Where PO value is 
composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO value 
mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
Page 2 of 3 
 
E) (A) Conditions for Startup applicants only (not applicable for applicants other than startups): 
(i) The company should be certified as ‘Start Up; by Inter -Ministerial Board of Certification as constituted by 
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion from time to time. 
 
(ii) The Company product (valves) should have been tested and cleared from a Govt. approved third party 
laboratory as per applicable standards (IS/IEC etc.). 
 
(iii) The factory set up shall be inspected by NTPC for checking the suitability for taking up manufacturing of the 
product by start up, before declaring it qualified. Inspection requirement shall not be waived off.  
 
(iv) The product shall be manufactured only in an Indian Manufacturing facilities / wor ks. 
 
(v) No Turnover requirement shall be specified. 
 
(vi) In case of placement of Purchase Order, Start up Contractor shall furnish performance guarantee for an 
amount of 10% of the ex -works cost of the equipment(s) in addition to the contract performance guarante e to 
be submitted by the contractor. 
 
(B) Other requirements / conditions for Startup applicants: 
1. The startup applicant should upload in the “QR Documents” tab of the  Technical Parts of  online application the  
following:- 
Credential documents in support of conditions (A-i) & (A-ii) as above  
+ the Qualifying Requirement stipulated for them in the previous page. 
 
If proper documents as mentioned above are not given by the applicant, their application may not be considered any 
further. 
 
2. In the “Technical Information” part of the online application, they are not required to upload any Purchase Order (PO) 
/ PO Execution proof as required for other type of applicants. In the “PO” tab and “Supporting Invoices / Completion 
Certificate” tabs they can upload a page mentioning the following “application from startup applicant, hence this is not 
applicable.” 
 
3. In the “Financial Information” part of the application they are not required to upload any “Profit & Loss” + “Balance 
Sheet”. In this tabs hey can upload a pag e mentioning the following “application from startup applicant, hence this is 
not applicable.”  
 
4. On application submission by the startup applicant it will be implied that they agree to the conditions given at A -iii, 
A-iv & A-vi as above. 
 
5. In case of issue of tender enquiry after enlistment the startup applicants should agree to all terms & conditions given 
in the said tenders from NTPC sites / plant / offices.  
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of General Purpose manually 
operated CI NRV/Check Valves 
 
 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 18MEG-01(C) 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION General Purpose Manually operated CI NRV/Check 
Valves 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Specifications: 
General purpose CI NRV / Check Valve as per IS 5312 or equivalent International Standard. 
 