                                                                           NTPC LTD 
                                                                     USSC, VEC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1 CEG No. BMD-32 
2 CEG DESCRIPTION Corrosion mapping of water wall tubes in Boiler. 
3 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CPG1 / VEC 
4 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 1. RFET (Remote Field Electromagnetic Testing) Technique to be 
used in boilers for the following type of defects: 
a. Cracks in tubes (external as well as internal) 
b. Inside pitting 
c. Manufacturing defects 
d. Any irregularities inside the tubes 
 
2. Agency must deploy necessary T&P, requisite Certified Skilled 
& Semiskilled manpower for successful execution of work. 
 
3. Calibration: Calibration of instruments shall be as per ASME 
Section V, Article 17. Calibration of the equipment to be done 
on the calibration block which  consists of notches inside the 
surface and holes on the outside surface. Also, Sensitivity 
calibration to be done by using new tube and used tube or 
reference block (tube with known defects). 
 
4. Proper cleaning of Boiler tube straight portion which is 
identified for inspection with RFET. Cleaning of boiler tube is 
in the scope of NTPC. 
 
5. Any indication of defect during scanning of the tube to be 
confirmed using UT techniques to determine the nature  of 
defect and size of the defect, UT is in the scope of agency 
without any additional claim to NTPC. 
 
 
6. The Vendor must carry out the inspection work in boiler tubes 
straight portion areas inside Boiler & shall submit preliminary 
day to day inspection report as NTPC may have to take up 
necessary repair / replacement work immediately as per 
recommendation from the Vendor. 
 
7. During actual checking by RFET,  defective tubes will be cross  
checked by RT  (crack), Inside pitting by visual check and if 
results are found in conformity, then test will be further 
continued. 
 
8. Agency shall depute the ECT (Eddy Current Testing) Level -II 
operator, UT Level -II operator, and technicians with the 
knowledge of RFET. They should have knowledge and 
experience to operate and evaluate the RFET signal. 
 
9. Final report to be submitted to EIC within 15 days of 
completion of work.  
 
10. Agency has to do work / inspection  in-situ (without cutting 
tubes and bends) from outside surface of tubes. 
11. Vendor must arrange industrial extension boards for doing 
RFET at interior locations of boiler. However electric supply 
shall be supplied by NTPC free of cost.  Adequate lighting in 
the working area shall be provided by NTPC however hand 
lamps (24DC only) shall be arranged by vendor. 
  
     12. Any additional arrangements required to complete  the 
intended RFET successfully  and safely shall be in the scope of 
contractor.  
13.Work area: Boiler 
14.Other details of works as per specific station requirement shall 
be given in Tender documents. 
5 TECHNICAL QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENTS 
The applicant should have executed the contract of Corrosion 
Mapping / Inspection of Boiler tubes / bends by RFET (Remote Field 
Electromagnetic Testing) Technique in Thermal Power Plant of 
Minimum Unit Size of 200 MW or above in India during the preceding 
five (5) years reckoned as on the date of submission of application. 
 
 
DOCUMENT TO BE 
SUBMITTED BY VENDOR IN 
SUPPORT OF MEETING QR 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above.  
 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms 
and conditions, BOQ POs (issued within last Five (5) years reckoned 
as on date of submission of application in support of award and 
copy of Client's Completion certificate/RA Bill/ final dev iation 
statement from the concerned client /copies of invoice to establish 
successful execution as per QR.  
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
 
 
 
                                                                         NTPC LTD 
                                                                  USSC, VEC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
CEG No. BMD-32 
6 ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS TO 
BE SUBMITTED 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment: 
- 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar 
work during previous five years from the date of application and 
Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation 
Statement from the concerned client in support of successful 
execution of jobs against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date 
of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / 
available, then certified copy by a registered practicing 
Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
4. PAN, PF and GST registration certificate 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations available with 
the applicant. 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit to get enlisted. 
7. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during evaluation. 
 
7 NOTES 1. Similar work means Corrosion Mapping / Inspection of Boiler tubes 
/ bends by RFET (Remote Field Electromagnetic Testing) Technique in 
any thermal power plant in India  during the preceding five (5) years 
reckoned as on the date of submission of application. 
 
2.Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite 
(i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-up of 
composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any separate 
re-imbursement / escalation will not be considered. 
3. All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the Special 
terms & conditions (STC) available at VDC portal vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
8 QUALITY PLAN (IF APPLICABLE) Not applicable 
9 CATEGORY OF ENLISTMENT CATEGORY-1 
 