NTPC LTD 
Vendor Development Cell (VDC), Raipur 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Ultrasonic Flow 
Meter 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 94 MEG-07 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Ultrasonic Flow Meter 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE VDC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The Applicant should be a Manufacturer or subsidiary company of Manufacturer of 
Ultrasonic Flow Meter. 
2. The Applicant should have successfully executed the supply of Ultrasonic Flow Meter during 
the last five (5) years as on the date of application. The Ultrasonic Flow Meter supplied 
should have been in satisfactory operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date of 
application. 
Documents to be submitted in support of meeting Technical QR: 
1. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO 
certificate /certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other 
statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of Ultrasonic Flow Meter. Brief details 
of manufacturing facilities or Standard published catalogue for Ultrasonic Flow Meter also 
to be given. 
2. The PO in support of award and completion certificate/copies of invoice to establish 
successful execution of the supply of Ultrasonic Flow Meter as per QR. 
 
C) Documents to be submitted to find executed value of orders: 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated 
above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for 
enlistment: - 
1. Three (3) POs of the highest executed values of similar work (see definition at point E: Note- 
1 below) during previous five (5) years from the date of application. Copy of Invoice / 
Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of 
supply against the POs to be submitted. These will be required for calculation of execution 
capability. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three (3) 
completed financial year’s reckoned from the date of application. In case where the audited 
results for the last financial years as on the date of application are not available, the 
financial result certified by a practicing Chartered accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. 
3. GSTIN certificate ,PAN ,Power of attorney, Letter of undertaking ,works information etc. as 
mentioned in enlistment application pages of website www.vendor.ntpc.co.in 
4. NTPC can request for other documents as necessary during the course of evaluation. 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar works means:  
NOTE-2:- Supply of Ultrasonic Flow / Ultrasonic Level Meter to any Power 
Plants / Petroleum Refinery / Fertilizer Plants / Steel / Aluminum Industry within last five (5) years 
from the date of application for enlistment. 
 
NOTE-2:-The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied 
against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application). Where 
PO value is composite (i.e. including Taxes etc.), the applicant to give item-wise break-up of 
Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
 
 
DUAL PATH TRANSIT TIME CLAMP-ON ULTRASONIC FLOW METER 
 
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS: 
 
Type Transit time Clamp On Ultrasonic meter 
Mounting Style Dual path with two sets of transducers on the   same pipe 
Flow measurement Instantaneous Flow rate as well as totalized flow 
Power supply 230 V AC from UPS. 
Outputs: Analog 
Current Binary 
 
Communication ports 
 
Isolated 4-20mA linear outputs for each path  Contact 
relay outputs, 2 NO + 2 NC for alarm 
 
RS 232 C digital 
Hand held terminal port 
Display/Indication  Flow meter with LCD screen backlight based local display and 
keypad If required, transmitter shall be suitably located away 
from the sensor for better access and visibility. 
Recording / Totalizing/Logging  
Facilities 
Yes. Should be able to compute cumulative flow  over 
intervals selectable by owner i.e., daily, weekly, monthly etc. 
The data shall be stored in  the memory of flow computer for 
access  in future 
Software features Compensation for any cross path errors. Programming,  
configuration, shall be possible from front panel. 
Diagnostics False signal tolerance , power supply failure etc 
Protection class IP-65 'or better, Weather protection against direct sunlight, 
rain etc for Flow .' meter and  suitable for Cooling water for 
Transducer 
Accuracy +/- 1% 
Electrical connection Plug and socket 
Accessories All mounting hardware required like clamping fixtures, 
mechanism to remove the transducers  online, 
interconnecting cables etc. 
All weather canopy for protection from direct sunlight and 
direct rain. 
Material of all fittings shall be SS 316. 
 