 
NTPC LTD 
VDC, RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No. BMD-27 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
In Situ repairing of HP valves 
3 Responsibility Centre VDC 
4 Brief scope of work In-situ repair of High-Pressure Valves: 
1. Dismantle the valve. 
2. Cleaning of the dismantled parts of the valve. 
3. Inspect and identify of defective portions the valve. 
4. DPT shall be carried out for the seating surface and valve spindle to 
identify surface crack. 
5. If required, Repair the seat, and plug by welding, grinding, and 
lapping by using special purpose portable machines. 
6. Ensuring 100% blue matching on the mating surfaces. 
7. Welding of valve plug and seat is to be done by suitable welding 
electrodes. (Electrodes shall be in scope of agency). 
8. DPT checking of welding area to ensure defect free welding (DPT kit 
shall be in scope of agency). 
9. Proper cleaning of all parts before assembly. 
10. Assemble the valve with new/ repaired components, packing, gaskets 
etc. 
11.  Carry out Functional test of the valve after re-assembly to ensure 
proper opening and closing of the valve. 
12. Valve size up to 900NB / Class up to 4500 / Unit size up to 800MW. 
13. Servicing of valves/ reclamation of valves / refurbishing of valves / 
Safety valve seat cutting is also in this scope. 
14. NRV- in situ repair/servicing are also in this scope. 
15. Work area: Both boiler & Turbine. 
16.  "The in-situ work of complete (100%) valve seat repair involving 
complete (100%) removal of Stellite layer/hard faced layer and 
rebuild up with welding and blue matching of Stellite 
coated/hardfaced valve seat." shall be excluded from the purview of 
this enlistment. 
Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be given 
in Tender documents. 
2. Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
The applicant should have executed In-situ repair of high-pressure valves of 
size 150mm (6”) NB or above and of class 1500 or above in a Unit of 
capacity 200MW or above in any thermal power plant in India. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support of meeting 
QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement and other certificate/documents as mentioned elsewhere 
NTPC LTD 
VDC, RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
CEG No. BMD-27 
6 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are required to 
be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
  i. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during 
previous five years from the date of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the concerned client in 
support of successful execution of work against each of the POs to 
besubmitted. 
  ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the  previous  
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In 
case, the audited documents are not ready/available, then certified copy of 
financial statement by a registered practicing chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
  iii. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF & GST/Service Tax 
registration certificate. 
  iv. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to 
submit to get enlisted. 
7 NOTES: 1.0 Similar work means: In- situ repair of valves /servicing of valves / overhauling 
of valves/re-condition of valves/reclamation of valves / refurbishing of valves 
/ seat cutting of valves /seat replacement of valves in a Unit of capacity 
200MW or above in any thermal power plant in India. 
2.0 Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break- up of composite 
PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Executed value of contracts shall 
include escalation amount because of price adjustment, if any, in thecontract. 
 