Page 1 of 3 
 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
  
Sub: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for Fire Tenders (CAT-1) - 68MEG-01  
 
  
A)  MEG DETAILS    
  1.0  MEG NO.  68MEG-01  
  2.0  MEG DESCRIPTION  Fire Tenders (CAT-1) 
  3.0  RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE  CPG-1/VDC  
B)  
Technical Criteria of QR:  
1. The applicant should be a manufacturer / fabricator of ‘Water Tender(s), Foam Tender(s), 
DCP Fire tender(s) and Multipurpose fire tender(s)’. 
C)  
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying Requirements:  
1. Latest annual report OR NSIC registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory 
document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material. 
2. Copy of Purchase Orders (POs) and inspection reports/MDCCs (Material Dispatch Clearance 
Certificate) for fire tenders to prove credentials as a manufacturer/ Fabricator of fire 
tenders, during previous five years from the date of application. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
D) 
Other Documents to be uploaded: In addition to the documents required in support of 
Qualifying Requirements as stated at C) above, following documents are also required to be 
uploaded by the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar works during previous five years from 
the date of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned 
buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited result for the 
preceding financial year is not available, certification of financial statements from a 
practicing-chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to submit 
the certificate from practicing chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of the three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial years 
shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as on date of 
application and certificate from the practicing chartered certifying the financial parameters 
are not available 
3. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
Page 2 of 3 
 
E)  
NOTE-1  Similar works means: Supply of fire tender(s) built on 16 Tonne Capacity Chassis or 
more. 
NOTE-2  
The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works 
executed/supplied against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs 
as on date of application). Where PO value is composite (i.e., including Taxes etc.), 
the applicant to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO value mentioning Basic 
Value, Taxes etc 
NOTE-3  Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover.  
F)  QUALITY  
PLAN 
ATTACHED 
G) Category of 
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-1 
 
  
  
Page 3 of 3 
 
NTPC LTD 
CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
  
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for Fire Tenders (CAT-1) - 68MEG-01  
 
  
A)  MEG DETAILS    
  1.0  MEG NO.  68MEG-01  
  2.0  MEG DESCRIPTION  Fire Tenders (CAT-1) 
  3.0  RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE  CPG-1/VDC  
B)  
Technical Specifications 
1. Fire Tenders built on 16 tons to 25 tons (Gross Vehicle weight) Chassis Capacity. 
Other technical requirements shall be as per Indian Standards / CISF technical 
specifications. 
 
 
 
 
1. SCOPE 
This standard lays down requirements regarding materials, design and construction, workmanship and 
finishing with accessories and equipment for DCP tender of 2000kg capacity. 
 
2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
The DCP Tender would be fabricated generally conforming to IS - 10993 on TATA/LPT-1613 or equivalent 
capacity Chassis, BS-VI or latest. The GVW of appliance will not cross the GWV of chassis manufacturer's 
specifications with all equipment & Crew. The weight distribution diagram should be submitted for approval. 
 
3. CAPACITY 
The DCP Tender would be of 2000 kgs., i.e. 2 x 1000 kgs. capacity vessels will  be  provided. The DCP  
Vessels  would be mounted on the chassis in such a manner that the weight is evenly distributed on the 
chassis. 
ii) The DCP pressure vessels would be designed & fabricated as per ASME CODE VIII of unfired pressure 
vessels     & suitable anticorrosion treatment would be given to the internal surface of the vessels. 
iii) Each DCP vessels would be equipped with filling aperture, pressure gauge, pressure release safety valve,  
discharge plug, etc. suitable locations. 
iv) Each vessel would be designed for the use of Dry Chemical Powder. The each vessel would be of adequate 
size     to accommodate 1000 Kgs. of DCP & also have adequate empty area to facilitate  easy movement  of 
the N2 Gas &  dry powder in the vessel to maintain fluidity. 
 
Suitable device shall be provided or arrangement made to restore the fluidity of the powder to ensure its 
capability to flow through the fittings, valves and pipelines to the outlets. 
 
4. EXPELLENT 
The expellant gas system shall preferably have nitrogen gas in cylinders of capacity not less than 50 litres 
each, having filling pressure of not less than 200 kg/cm2. The gas shall be sufficient to discharge 2000 kg of 
dry Chemical powder through the long-range monitor and hose-reels. Each DCP vessel will have its own 
expellant gas cylinder assembly consisting of min. 04 Nos. brand new N2 cylinders these cylinders should be 
CCE approved & ISI marked (IS 7285) to discharge dry chemical powder through a long range monitor  & 
two hand lines (hose  reels) or both at  one time. The total quantity of gas would be sufficient to discharge 
2000 Kgs. of DCP & for flushing the pipeline    etc. 
 
i) The discharge valves of the Nitrogen cylinders would be lever operated. The operating pressure of the dry 
powder vessel will not be more than 14 Kg/cm2. 
ii) The N2 cylinders will be positioned horizontally behind the driver's cabin with proper stand & supports.  
The entire pipelines between the N2 cylinder & vessel would be of rigid type with flexible rubber connections. 
Pressure regulator/s would be provided between the N2 cylinders & the DCP  vessel so  as to regulate the flow 
of gas to the  DCP vessel at not  less than 14 kg/cm2 pressure. Arrangement will be made to prevent back flow 
of  the expellant  gas. 
iii) Each battery of N2 cylinders would be connected to a common manifold with necessary valve regulators etc. 
 
5. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION 
 
DESIGN OF DCP VESSEL 
 
a) Each vessel would be provided with a blow valve or similar device to discharge excess N2 Gas in the 
atmosphere even if the vessel is full with dry powder. The excess gas would not affect the DCP. 
b) The DCP vessel would be so deigned that the total discharge from each vessel is not less than 90% of its 
total capacity. Sufficient quantity of gas would also be available to flush the entire pipelines, hand lines, 
monitor lines etc. after use. 
c) DCP vessel shall have following constructional details as under: 
i. Filling aperture with cover 150mm 
ii. Man hole with bolted cover 450mm internal dia. 
iii. DCP filling 150mm 
iv. Drain plug 150mm 
v. Safety valve 02 nos. of suitable size as per norms 
vi. Pressure gauge 01 no of suitable size as per norms 
vii. Isolation valve 01 no of suitable size as per norms 
 
 
viii. Discharge valve 01 no of suitable size as per norms 
 
d) An alternate independent connection from the expellant gas manifold will  be provided to flush all  the lines after  
use & the control valve for flushing the hand lines etc. will be located on the control place. The two vessels shall not 
have any inter connection. 
 
e) Deleted  
 
MONITOR 
 
i) A long range DCP MONITOR will be mounted on an independent platform immediately behind the driver's cabin. 
The monitor would be  capable  of traversing 360° in horizontal  plane. A suitable locking device would  be provided  
to lock the monitor at the desired position while in use. 
 
The platform shall be adequately strengthened to avoid any vibration while the monitor is  in  use. There shall be  
proper and sufficient moving space around the platform for movement of the operator. 
 
ii) The monitor shall be capable of throwing the dry powder to a distance of not less than 40 Mtrs. in still air. The 
discharge through the monitor would be adjustable at 15, 25 & 40 kg/sec at operating pressure. The throw of the 
monitor would be manually regulated. The monitor would be connected to both  the  DCP  containers  to  enable 
powder to be discharged from both vessels. 
iii) Two hand lines connected to the rear DCP vessel will be provided with 30 M long high pressure hose fitted with 
trigger type pistol grip nozzle & would be mounted on a hose reel confirming to IS 5132 of sufficient size. The hose 
reels would be located at the rear of the appliance in an easily accessible position to facilitate quick withdrawal. The 
hose reel would be designed in such a manner that overrunning of the hose is prevented at  all  times  and  also  
prevents kinking of the hose while winding. The discharge of the dry powder from each hand lines would not be less 
than 2.5  kg/sec & not less than 10 M at full operating pressure. 
iv) The monitor shall be provided in a manner so as to enable  the operator to move it easily. The  monitor shall  rest  
on a clamp, properly secured While not in use. 
v) All necessary control valves gauges etc. will be provided on the OFF SIDE of the vehicle. 
 
6. BODY WORK 
 
CABIN 
i) Two front seats, one for officer and one for driver shall be provided in the cabin and one seat for 5 Crew members 
shall be provided behind the officer and driver seats. The seats shall  be  of good  quality and  latest design (bucket  
type seats with 100 mm thick cushions. Also good quality removable and washable seat covers shall be provided. 
 
ii) The cabin should have four doors (2 each side). The door shall open outwards.  Cabin  doors  shall  be provided  
with splinter proof safety glasses and shall also be provided with their movement mechanism. 
iii) First aid box made of fiberglass shall be provided and fitted in the cabin at suitable location for 10 persons & 
contents as per The Factories Act. 
iv) Non-slip type steps and rails shall be provided in the cabin to assist the crewmembers to get in and out. 
v) Provision shall be made to store two no. BA sets in the back rest of the driver, officer and the crew seats with 
suitable clamps and brackets where the BA sets (single cylinder) shall rest and shall not be kept in  a  hanging 
condition. 
vi) The crew cabin structure shall be so designed so as to avoid any vibration/rattling/deformation in the intended 
usage of vehicle. 
vii) Two numbers of large sun visors and rear view mirrors shall be provided on each sides. 
viii) The entire floor of the crew cabin shall be provided with 3M-make Vinyl matting of minimum 6mm thickness 
with anti-skid features. 
ix) Cabin shall have one roof light and two sidelights 
 
 
7. CONTROL PANEL 
 
Adequately illuminated control panel shall be provided at easily accessible position to operate the dry powder system. 
All control/items of equipment shall be clearly marked or identified by fixing suitable labels to facilitate easy operation. 
 
The control panel shall include the following: 
 
a) Pressure gauge for expellant gas cylinder. 
b) Pressure gauge to indicate operating pressure 
c) Operating levers for 
i) Expellant gas valve 
ii) Monitor valve 
iii) Valves for hose reels 
iv) Pressure release valve 
v) Flushing valve for monitor 
vi) Flushing valve for hose reels 
d) Switches for lighting arrangement. 
e) Instruction plate for operation, with line diagram 
 
8. OTHER CONSTRUCTION DETAILS 
 
1. The rear structure would be made out of 40 x 40 mm square tubes of 3mm thickness. The structure of the cabin 
would be from 14swg MS pressed sections duly treated for anticorrosion. 
 
2. The complete outside panelling would be done from 16g aluminium sheets & internal panelling would be from 
18swg aluminium- chequered plates. The panelling on the cabin roof would be from 18swg aluminium sheets. 
 
3. The entire flooring of the vehicle would be covered with 10swg aluminium chequered plates. The roof of the rear 
body would be covered with 16swg aluminium-chequered plates. 
 
4. The DCP  Tender would be supplied complete with initial charge of BIS marked 2000 Kg Dry Chemical Powder    
as per IS- 4308. 
 
5. The appliance shall be fitted with a towing arrangement at the rear of adequate strength to carry one tone trailer. 
 
6. The unit shall be well balanced on the chassis and shall have centre of gravity as low as possible. The overall height 
shall not exceed the permissible limits. 
 
7. In addition to the enclosed accommodation, riding position shall be provided for 2  persons on  a platform  at  the 
rear of the appliance, Grab rails and non skid steps shall be provided, wherever required to assist the crew to mount  
and dismount. 
 
8. All light fittings at the rear shall be suitably protected by expanded metal to prevent damage due to movement of 
crew. 
 
9. LOCKERS 
 
1. Sufficient number of lockers for the storage of the equipment, tools and other items shall be provided. The lockers 
shall be fitted with waterproof lining. 
2. The cab and the lockers shall be of composite construction with sufficient rigidity and reinforcement and shall be 
kept as light as possible. Pressed sections of sufficient strength shall be used for the super structure. 
3. All lockers shall be provided with internal automatic on-off lighting system with a master switch in Driver / Crew 
cabin. 
4. The doors of lockers shall have efficient means for holding the closed by flush fitting spring loaded lockers. 
5. The doors of side lockers shall not be hinged at the bottom. 
 
 
10. EQUIPMENTS AND ACCESSORIES 
 
The appliances shall be provided with the equipment detailed to Appendix-‘A' & Appendix-‘B'. 
 
The following accessories shall be fitted/ provided in addition to those normally fitted on commercial vehicles: 
a) Electrically operated siren - 1 km working on the batteries of the appliance, with its switch in the driver's cab. The 
siren shall be fitted at a position where it is protected from damage due to weather conditions. 
b) Fog lamps – 02 Nos. 
c) Reversing light- suitably situated to assist reversing. 
d) Search light - adjustable to give flood or beam light, mounted in a convenient position  but  capable  of  being 
readily disconnected and mounted on a tripod away from the appliance;  complete with tripod  and with not less  than 
30 m of TRS cable on Ii reel mounted on the appliance. The capacity of the cable shall be such that the voltage drop 
shall be not more than 2V at the other end. 
e) Spot light - adjustable, mounted in a convenient position on the rear side of the driver's cab. 
f) Inspection lamp - protected type, on wander lead with plug. A socket shall be provided on the control panel in the 
driver's cab for plugging in the lamp. 
g) Tools - all tools required for routine maintenance of the appliance which are not included in the standard kit of   
tools for the chassis. 
h) Wind screen wipers - two, electrically operated. 
i) Operation Manual – Three sets. 
 
11. PAINTINGS & MARKING 
 
PAINTINGS: 
 
The entire appliance shall be painted in DUPONT make "FIRE RED" paint & thickness of 0.12 to 0.2mm, using  
double coat spray painting on the outside. Lettering work in yellow color on both sides of DCP Tender  as given  
below: 
1. The whole vehicle shall be painted internally and  externally with zinc  chromate undercoat  and sufficient  number 
of finishing coats. 
2. The driving compartment and the inside lockers shall be painted in pale cream. 
3. The chassis and wheel articles shall be painted Black. 
4. Owner's emblem in original colour together with name (in Hindi and English) as given below shall be written in 
golden yellow colour on both sides of the Vehicle. CISF and PSU’s emblem will be painted on both sides with  details 
in words in between emblem. 
 
MARKING: 
 
Each appliance shall be clearly and permanently marked with the following information: 
a) Manufacturer’s name or trade-mark 
b) Year of manufacture. 
a) Engine and chassis No., and 
b) Capacity of DCP Vessels 
 
12. ELECTRICAL SYSTEM 
 
1. All the wiring will be properly fixed in position & will be protected against heat, oil  and  physical  injury.  
Wherever, necessary wiring will pass through conduits. All electrical circuits will have separate  fuses  suitably  
marked & grouped in common fuse located in an easily accessible position. 
2 All important electrical circuits shall have separate fuses, suitably indicated, which shall be  grouped  into  a  
common fuse-box located in an accessible position in the driver's cab fitted with means for carrying spares fuses 
3. Provision will be made for min. 4 spare fuses in the Box provided in driver  cabin. All  controls  for electrical  
system will be provided in front of driver's seat. Battery will be placed in totally enclosed box. 
 
13. PUBLIC ADDRESS EQUIPMENT 
 
Grand make latest type battery operated lighting bar and multi-tone hooter/mike with amplifier & flashing light Beacon 
system with strobe should be provided. A light Bar of min 1700mm long operated on 12/24 Volts battery 
 
 
having 2 Nos. rotating Red Beacons lights, 4 Nos. Halogen lights, 4 Nos. strobe, hooter and PA system in built 
amplifier and a microphone shall be provided in front of officer’s seat in the Drivers cabin. The Model of PA system 
shall be AHUJA/PHILIPSNENUSVOICE or any reputed make and shall be of minimum capacity of 75 watts.
    SPECIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
 
1) Full contract value will be released within thirty days  after receipt  of  complete DCP Tender at site. However, party 
has to furnish bank guarantee of ten percent of Purchase Order value valid for 18 months. (Performance Guarantee 
Period) 
 
2) Delivery period of the complete DCP Tender is eight months from the date of receipt of purchase order from  
NTPC, Kahalgaon. 
 
Approx. time frame for Purchase of TATA chassis / equivalent chassis and transport  of  chassis  to  agency's  
workshop is three months. 
 
Approx. time frame for Fabrication of body and equipment at agency's workshop is five months. 
 
At the time of final delivery DCP Tender should have filled DCP vessels i.e. 2000Kgs of DCP is in scope of agency. 
 
3) Pre dispatch inspection of chassis at TATA MOTORS or equivalent  dealer stockyard in Bihar state to be carried  
out by NTPC Kahalgaon representatives from Auto Base and/or MM-Offsite maintenance in presence of  
representative of agency. 
 
Prior intimation at least 15 days in advance to be given. TATA MOTORS / Equivalent  Quality plan to be submitted  
by agency for approval of NTPC Kahalgaon FQA department. 
 
Inspection during fabrication : Successful agency should submit quality plan  as  per relevant  IS  Codes provided in  
PR specifications for approval by NTPC Kahalgaon FQA Department  with  assistance  from  MM-Offsite 
Maintenance and CISF, FIRE WING. 
 
The 1st stage (Construction of under structure, DCP tanks. Placement of the  DCP  tanks, lockers  etc.)Inspection  as 
per QP shall be carried out by the NTPC and CISF Fire Wing. Similarly, Second and Final Stage inspection will be 
carried out by NTPC and CISF Fire Wing. Both the tests shall be carried out at vendor’s premises. 
 
Testing / inspection facility shall be provided  by the vendor at the time  of  joint inspections. Prior intimation at least 
15 days in advance shall be provided each time. 
 
Final inspection shall be carried out at NTPC Kahalgaon store after receiving of the material. 
 
4) Transport of chassis to agency's works and final delivery of DCP Tenders to NTPC,  Kahalgaon  will  be  in 
vendor's scope. However, necessary road permits shall be collected from NTPC Kahalgaon as per requirement. 
 
Temporary registration and transit insurance required till supply of DCP tender to NTPC-Kahalgaon will be in scope  
of agency. 
 
5) The manufacturer shall provide guarantee/warrantee for the design,  material, workmanship  and  the performance  
of the unit for a period of 18 months from the date of supply or 12 months from the date of commissioning of the 
vehicle whichever earlier. 
 
The vendor without any extra cost shall rectify any mechanical defect, faulty workmanship or operational  defects 
found during this period. 
 
For chassis and engine TATA MOTORS / Equivalent standard warranty to be applicable. 
 
However, special arrangement shall be made by dealer of TATA MOTORS / equivalent for arranging  in  site  
servicing of Engine and chassis at NTPC, KAHALGAON during standard free services. 
 
 
6) ACCEPTANCE TESTS 
Acceptance test shall be carried out as per BIS standards in practice. Prior to dispatch of fire tender the vendor's site 
/ workshop the following tests shall be carried out as acceptance test. 
 
ROAD TEST 
a) Acceleration & Performance Test 
b) Braking Test. 
c) Turning Circle Test 
 
STABILITY TEST 
a) Under fully laden vehicle (including crew) to the designed payload conditions. 
b) Vehicle shall pass Overturning Test 
i. The stability of the appliance will be such that when under fully equipped  & laden condition, if the surface on  
which the appliance stands is titled to either side, the point at which over turning occurs is not passed at an angle  of 
27° from horizontal. 
ii. The bidder should carry out this test on Mechanical Tilt Platform facility in their own works. This test will be 
carried out in the presence of CISF Fire Wing representative and management officials. 
iii. All the piping will be SS & subjected to optimum hydraulic test pressure for a period of minimum 10 minutes. 
 
 
7) After sale service: Equipment shall be serviced free of  cost at  regular intervals by the party during guarantee  
period of 18 months including in site replacement/repair as per requirement. The appliances must confirm IS 
specification 10993-2015. 
 
Vendor should mention the availability of TATA MOTORS / OTHER MANUFACTURER service center within 
50kms from NTPC, Kahalgaon for servicing of engine / chassis as per requirement. 
 
8) Demonstration of the equipments in DCP Tender & training in operation of their systems to be provided to Fire 
Service Team of CISF Unit, NTPC, Kahalgaon at the time of final delivery. 
 
9) Required chassis shall be purchased by the vendor in the name of NTPC Ltd, Kahalgaon from the state of  Bihar  
and shall be delivered after complete fabrication of DCP Tender to NTPC, Kahalgaon along with  following  
documents : 
 
a. Chassis invoice (Purchased in the state of Bihar with GST) in the name of NTPC, Kahalgaon. 
b. Form 21 (Sale Certificate from OEM of chassis). 
c. Form 22 (Road worthiness) 
d. Valid Temporary Registration certificate of chassis in the state of Bihar (Bhagalpur RTO). 
e. Any other documents required by statutory authorities. 
 
Permanent Registration of vehicle will be in NTPC, Kahalgaon scope. 
 
10) NTPC Kahalgaon will provide following documents as and when required: 
 
a. Authorization towards collection of chassis on behalf NTPC-Kahalgaon. 
b. Bihar Way Bill for transportation of chassis and complete vehicle 
 
11) The fabricated vehicle shall meet all the regulations with respect to motor vehicle act / RTO regulation enforce. 
 
12) Deleted  
 
13) Mandatory Spares for two years operation of Fire Tenders shall be supplied by the Vendor. 
 
14) INSTRUCTION BOOK, ACCESSORIES AND EQUIPMENT 
 
 
Instruction Book - Instructions book for the guidance of the user, including both operating and normal maintenance 
procedures shall be supplied. The following documents should be necessarily enclosed. 
 
i) General Arrangement Drawing of the above DCP Tender 
ii) Drawing of DCP Tank 
iii) Flow Diagram 
iv) Electrical Circuit Diagram. 
v) ISO 9001 Certificate 
vi) DGS&D Certificate all other related certificates. 
vii) Catalogue. 
 
Documents to be furnished by the vender along with the dispatch of material: 
 
i) Performance certificate for the equipments if any 
ii) Warranty Certificate 
iii) Line diagram 
iv) Maintenance Manual (This  manual shall  contain fully illustrated instruction on repair and overhaul of  
the super structure with details of fitment, tolerance and special tools to be used, and procedure for 
dismantling and assembly checks. 
v) Material test certificate critical equipment/fittings. 
 
15) Others: 
a) The tenderer shall furnish the clause-by-clause compliance statement as per specification. 
b) In case there is any deviation the same should be clearly brought out in the offer. 
c) The tenderer shall indicate the make/model in their offer. 
d) They shall mention the relevant BIS/EN/ NFPA certificate of the product offered. 
e) Relevant Test certificates shall be provided from a Govt. Approved laboratory or from the manufacturer, along 
with their offer, if the supplier is not a manufacture of the item. They shall submit valid authorization letter 
from the original manufacturer of their Indian corporate office along with offer. 
f) All equipment being quoted by vendor shall confirm to the latest version of relevant Indian/ International 
standard. 
g) Vendor shall mentioned the relevant standard reference against each  items  governed  by  the  Indian/ 
overseas international standard. 
h) Vendor shall agree to provide certificates in original of all  necessary or mandatory approvals in respect  of  
the fire Tender before dispatch. 
i) Along with techno-commercial offer, vendor shall submit a separate sheet  listing all items  (Installed  on  
DCP Tender) that shall be supplied. i.e. scope of supply shall be mentioned. 
j) The tool kits for maintenance shall be supplied along with the product. 
k) Technical manual comprising of servicing details shall be supplied with equipment. 
 
 
16) Minimum list of mandatory spares parts, to be supplied with DCP tender in addition to mentioned in technical 
specification, is mentioned below. 
1. CONTROLLER REGULATOR - 01 NO  
2. CHECK VALVE SS-02 NOS  
3. HP RUBBER PIPE WITH FITTING CONNECTION FROM CYL TO MMANIFOLD-02 NOS  
4. HP RUBBER PIPE WITH FITTING CONNECTION FROM MMANIFOLD TO VESSEL, HOSE REEL-02 NOS  
5.  1/2 INCH BALL VALVE-02 NOS  
6. 1 INCH BALL VALVES-02 NOS  
7. SILENSOR-3 NOS  
8. PR. GAUGE-02 NOS  
9. FILLING ORIFICE GASKET OF VESSEL-02 NOS  
10. WASHER FOR HIGH PR RUBBER PIPES, HOSE REEL VALVE AND FLUSHING VALVE- 04 NOS EACH 
 
However, complete list of mandatory spares is to be submitted by agency along with bid including all of the above mentioned 
spares. 
17) Below mentioned Appendix-A (list of tool kits items with box) & Appendix-B (L IST OF ACCESSORIES TO BE SUPPLIED 
WITH THE VEHICLE and their specifications) are part of technical specification.  
 
       
 
 
A PPENDIX- A  
L IST OF TOOL KIT ITEMS WITH BOX  
 
S. No. Items Descriptions Quantity 
1. Screw / Adjustable wrench - Taparia Make 02 Sets 
2. Cutting Plier - Taparia Make 02 Nos. 
3. Pipe Wrench 18” - Taparia Make 02 Nos. 
4. Pipe Wrench 26” - Taparia Make 02 Nos. 
5. Screw Driver (6”, 8” & 12”) - Taparia Make 02 Each 
6. Ring spanners 8 Nos. - Taparia Make 01 Set 
7. Wheel Spanner with Rod 01 Set 
8. D-spanner 8 Nos - Taparia Make 01 Set 
9. Hammer 500 Gram- Taparia Make 01 No. 
10. Hydraulic jack — suitable capacity 01 No. 
 
A PPENDIX- B  
 
 
L IST OF ACCESSORIES TO BE SUPPLIED WITH THE VEHICLE and their specifications  
 
S. No. Items Quantity 
1. Spare expellant gas cylinders each of same size & capacity as provided in DCP tender, filled with 
gas. 
04 Nos. 
2. Portable Hand operated Siren as BIS- 6026/1985 / EN specifications 02 Nos. 
3. Stretcher Molded type (as per IS : 4037-1967) 04 Nos. 
4. Portable mega phone / Wireless Amplifier (WA-320) with all accessories of good reputed 
Company made by original manufacturer. 
02 Nos. 
5. Shears (bolt cutter) 02 Nos. 
6. 3 strand 14 mm Poly propylene rescue rope 04 Nos. 
7. Cutter Tin Heavy Duty 250mm 02 Nos. 
 
 
 
 
Sl. 
Name of the item / Product Description Technical Data / Specifications 
1. Spare expellant gas cylinders each of 
same size & capacity as provided in DCP 
tender , filled with gas 
N2 cylinders should be CCE approved & ISI marked (IS 7285) 
2. Portable Hand operated Siren as BIS/EN 
specifications 
As per IS-6026/1985 / EN specifications and latest amendments 
3. Stretcher Molded - HDPE Dimensions: 
 
 Product Size (L x W x H) -185 cm. X 45 cm. X 6 cm. 
 Self-Weight - 8 Kg. 
 Load Limit - 159 Kg. 
 Gross Weight - 10 Kg. 
 
 Two handles at tapered end to allow for more stable transport. 
 Head area is smooth to ensure all  head immobilisation devices adhere  
to the board. 
 Angled edges for log –rolling. 
 Floats 70 kg. In water. 
 One-piece, HDPE (high-density, polyethylene) plastic construction,  
with polyurethane foam fill and greater density around the handholds. 
 Impervious to all bodily fluids. 
 100 % X-Ray translucent. 
 All board    meets OSHA recommendations and    is easy to 
decontaminate. 
 Guaranteed for life under normal usage. 
 
Spine Board/backboard Stretcher with 
 two handles at a tapered end (as per IS : 
 4037-1967) 
4. Portable mega phone :  Power Output - 20 W Rated / 25 W Max. 
 Voice Range - Clear sound, long range 0.4 km (01 km in quite area) 
 Power Source - In-built rechargeable lithium battery 12V AC/ DC, /Dry 
cell 
 Microphone:- unidirectional 
 Weight - Light weight ,Not more than 3.0 kg 
 Body - All ABS body, sturdy yet lightweight. 
 Siren - Built-in siren. 
 Volume switch- Conveniently located volume control & switch Anti- 
feedback. Microphone with volume Control & Press-to-talk Switch. 
 Hanging protection on shoulder must be provided. 
 Guarantee/ Warranty Should specified period not less than 12  month  
from date of receipt. 
 Wireless Amplifier (WA-320) with all 
accessories of good reputed company 
made by original manufacturer. 
5. Bolt Cutter /Shears  Length 30” 
 cutting jaws : made of high tensile solid alloy steel, specially 
 heat treated with centre cut head 
 Handle : With sufficient grip of rubber fro a length of 6 to 8 inches 
 Application : Suitable for cutting  hard material  viz. bolt, iron rod of 10  
to 14 mm diameter 
6. RESCUE ROPE PP 
 
3 strand 14mm PP Rope (35 Meters) 
Three strand 14mm Dia PP Rope having breaking strength of more than 
3050 Kgf. 
 High strength and Low weight 
 Highly resistance to acid and alkalis 
 Float in water , does not absorb water 
 Low elongation and better knot ability 
7. Cutter Tin Heavy Duty 
 
12-15 inches 
Digital Craft GE-TECH Heavy Duty Sheet Metal Hand Steel Cutting Tin 
Snips Scissors Cutters Snipers Professional Metal Cutter. 
 
Size : Length 250mm - 300 mm 
 
Application: For cutting tin sheets of small thickness 
 
 
 
Appe ix-t'A"
TECH ICAL SP lcATloN oF FOAM TENDER
L. CHASSIS
The Foam Tender shall be fabricated on a suitable 16 Ton (a x 2) - BS-VI or Latest emission norms' Cowl
Chassis with 4700 mm wheer Base & 1go Hp Engine of Ashok Leyrand/TATA or any other simirar and reputed
manufacturer. Drag hook or eye of adequate strength and design shall be provided at the rear & front side of
chassis by the vendor.
2. GENERAL
The Foam Tender including all its accessories & equipments is required for the Department' lt shall be
designed & manufactured in strict compliance with the specifications given below' as well as other relevant
lndian/ lnternational standards where applicable & as per sound engineering practices' The Foam Tender
shall be designed to effectively & efficiently carry 5,000 litres of water & 500 litres of Foam' a Godiva/
Rosenbauer or equivalent (CE certified/ UL listed) pump with a discharge capacity of 4000 lpm @ 10 kg/cm2
driven through heavy duty Power Take off (PTo) units, a water Monitor of approximately 1000 GPM (US)'
equipment, r..urrori"r, etc. All the equipments & accessories shall be fixed on the appliance in a compact'
neat & ergonomic manner and shall be easily & readily accessible for immediate use during emergencies' Due
care shall be taken to ensure that all aggregates are designed for ease & comfort of the operator' The Foam
Tender shall fulfill the requirements of 815:10460'
3. DESIGN & coNsrRUCTlON . _ _ :L:'it.. +^ ^il +r-,a carr
The Foam Tender shall be designed to be as compact as possible with ease of accessibility to all the service
parts. The pump & other equipment controls shall be so arranged that user can operate them easily &
conveniently. Lever type valves shall be preferred unless impractical in any way' The Foam Tender shall be
supplied complete with all the equipments & accessories mentioned in these specifications' The MoC
(materials of construction) shall be used with a view to combine lightness with strength & durability' No form
of wood, (timber or ply) shall be used anywhere in the body construction' All parts which form water ways'
come in contact with water or are made from materials that are prone to corrosion, shall be treated with a
good quality anti-corrosion system/ treatment/ palnt (epoxy coats)/ zinc coating, etc' The vendor shall submit
weight distribution chart along with design of supporting structure along with design calculations to the
department along with the technical bid, failing which, the bid shall be summarily rejected'
4, PUMPING SYSTEM
The pump fitted on ttre Foam Tender shail be a Godiva/ Rosenbauer or equivalent (cE certified/ UL listed)
with cFg/GM. The centrifugal pump shall be capable of delivering not less than 4000 lpm @ to kg/cm2' The
quoted Fire pump shall be cE certified to EN 1028-1 and 2, its subsequent amendments (2008 or above) with
EN 1050 and lso 1,412L. Fabricator shall provided five (05) years warranty and after sale service letter from
oEM along with tender documents. Fabricator shall not make any modification (manlfold, etc') in pump and
shall provide pump having 4 deliveries from oEM. Fabricator shall provide the warranty and after sale service
letter from oEM along with tender documents. The warranty shall come into effect from the date of supply
of Foam Tender. The oEM priming system shall be twin piston reciprocating type with an additional Exhaust
ejector or water-ring type primer, which shall be capable of lifting water from 7 m depth within 30 seconds
when tested. The primer shall be capable of working even if left dry over extended periods' The pump shall
be of rigid construction & shall be modularly designed for ease of maintenance' lt shall be capable of
delivering its full performance with all strainers (exiernal & internal). The details of the pump such as its
make & model, supported with catalogs/ brochure/drawings, etc., shall be attached with the offer' The
discharge of the pump shall be routed to the outlets for hand lines and monitor fitted on the top' The other
construction details shall be as per the following specifications.
4.L PumP Suction tnlet
The suction inlet of the pump shall be capable of being connected either directly to hydrant discharge outlets
through headers or to the water tank of the vehicle. lt shall be of a suitable size to give the rated output of
the pump, but not less than 140 mm. The inlet shall be of male round-threaded type & provided in such a
way that it is convenient to take water from outside sources like open wells with metal type removable
strainer. The connection from the water tank to the pump shall be suitably sized (min 150 mm) to allow full
pumping at the rated output. A ball/ butterfly valve of good quality shall be fitted between the suction inlet
of the pump & the water tank. Stainless steel strainer shall be fitted inside the tank on the pipe outlet to
pump
4.2. Pump Discha rse Outlets
/
7
There shall be 4 outlets of standard size (63mm) with screw down type delivery valves, having female
instantaneous couplings. The pump shall have multivolute design for required pressure. Fabricator shall not
make any modification (manifold etc.) in pump and shall provide pump having 4 deliveries from oEM. A ball/
butterfly valve of good quality shall be fitted at the starting point of the water flow to the monitor. A second
valve shall be provided at a suitable place near the base of the monitor. This is to ensure that in case of a
leakage at any time in the first valve, the second valve fitted near the monitor base shall hold the pressure'
4.3. Pump Mounting
The pump shall be rear mounted to ensure maximum hydraulic efficiency when working from open water
sources. lt shall be mounted in such a way that vibrations from the drive line are not transmitted to the
control panel. The pump shall have at least four mounting points to ensure that the complete load of the
system is evenly distributed. The mounting shall be done on heavy "C" channels/ plates only. The mounting
shall be secured to the chassis members by bolting. welding of the mounting shall be strictly avoided. The
rotating drive flange shall be provided with a coverf guard so that injury is minimized during operation or
maintenance of the pump.The guard shall be bolted and easily removable.
4.4. Pump Material of Construction
The Pump body/ casing, impeller, delivery outlets, etc shall be made of
parts that may be subject to frequent wear shall be of renewable typ
confirming to lS: 6603 & shall be carried in anti-friction bearings as per
design. The impeller neck rings & impeller rings shall be renewable type.
lron for better heat dissipation. An easily accessible drain valve made
An ultra high pressure pump shall be provided with a capacity of 150 LPM @ 100 barwith 02nos h'
length, tanling distance for jet shall be around 12 lo 15 mtr., lancing distance for spray mode shall b
mtr., weight oithe gun shali not be more than 1.5 kg. A separate PTO shall be provided for operatio
in fire tender running condition also. Water mist system shall be provided as per lS specification.
CF8/GM. The wearing rings & other
e. The impeller shaft shall be of SS
the pump manufacturer's standard
The bearlng housing shall be of Cast
of SS-304 shall be Provided at the
bottom of the casing to enable easy draining of the complete system.
4.5. Pump Shaft Sealins
The shaft sealing shall be of self adjusting type. The sealing system shall be as per pump manufacturer's
standard design. The mechanicalseal assembly shallwith stand dry running of pump up to 2 minutes without
any damages.
4.6. Pump Control Panql
The pump control panel shall be supplied and designed keeping in mind ease of operation as well as
maintenance. The control panel shall be ergonomically designed with the following:
(i) Pump to DeliverY Outlets
(ii) PumP to Monitor
(iii) PumP to Tank Filling
(iv) Foam Tank to PumP
(v) PumP to Cooling line
(vi) Tank to PumP Suction
(vii) Outside source to Pump suction
(viii) Water Level lndicator
(ix) Throttle Control for engine
(x) Foam Level lndicator
(xi) Pressure Gauge
(xii) Compound Gauge
Note: The above mentioned connections are the min. requirement. other connections/ controls as may be
required can be provided by the manufacturer. The grouping of the pipelines & valves as wellas the complete
system layout shall be discussed with the inspecting officers at the time of the stage inspections.
4.7. Pump Priming Svstem
To ensure that the priming system is compatible with the pump, only an OEM (pump manufacturer) supplied
priming system shall be incorporated with the pumping system. The OEM priming system shall be twin piston
reciprocating type with an additional Exhaust ejector or Water-ring type primer, which shall be capable of
lifting water from 7 m means shall be provided to automatically limit the engine RPM to the manufacturer's
recommended speed. The primer shall get automatically disengaged once the pump is registered the
pressure. The system shall be maintenance free to the extent possible & shall be constructed of suitable
materials to prevent corrosion due to salty/ brackish water.
4.8 WATER MIST CLUBED WITH COMBIN ED FOAM FIRE TENDER
ose reels each 45 mtr.
,e approximate 6.5 to 7
,n of water mist system
a-
5. POWER TAKE OFF
The pro for the pump sha, be of VAs/ FrRE HAWK/ HALE/''ALL of suitable ratio for the rated output of the
pump & the torque oitr,. vehicle. The lever/switch for engaging the P.T.O' shall be provided in Driver's cabin'
rnspection/ maintenance hatch of removabre type shat be provided at suitable praces for gaining access to
gearbox/PTo.Necessarymodifications,tothestandarddriveSystemasavailableonthechassis,shallhave
to be done by the vendor so as to adopt the pro Units in the system. Necessary supports for pro Units,
propeller shafts coupling, universaljoints etc' for power input to and output from PTO Units shall have to be
provided by vendor. *re drive assembry components (shafts, coupring etc) sha, be dynamica'y balanced and
the vibration at any of the rotary parts shall be minimized'
5. COOLING SYSTEM
ln addition to the radiator cooling, an indirect cooling system of the open circuit type shall be provided if
required to keep the engine from overheating during extended use in *opicar crimates & when the ambient
temperature is over 40. c. The cooling system.sha, be so designed that the fu, power output of the engine
can be maintained during continuous stationary running without overheating. The operating temperature of
the engine cooring watei sha* be thermostaticary controred. The oir in the sump sha, be prevented from
overheating & the pump characteristics sha, be chosen in a manner so that the engine does not run at its
maximum speed for the required output. The cooring water outret pipe from p.T.o. & additional cooling tank/
heat exchanger sha, be connected through a suitabre diameter pipe. rne end of the pipe shall terminate in a
7. AUXILARY ULTRA HIGH PRESSURE PUMP UNIT
Thepumpshallbeofl50lpm@lOObarratedcapacity.ltshallbeasixplungerpositivedisplacementtype
pump, working to its capacity at not more than 1000 RPM' A by-pass for letting the water back to the tank
shall be provided to release excess pr.rrrru generated due to shutting of the hand lines' The pump shall have
double seal on each plunger with low pr"rrri. intermediate chamber to keep the water seals cool and
rubricated. This system wiil arso permit the recircuration of any reakage from the high pressure back to the
pump inlet. The pump shall have synthesized pistons of ceramic' The connecting rods will be of special alloys
with row attrition coefficient, high wear resistance and high anti-seize properties. The hydraulic structure will
be designed to simplify scheduled maintenance procedures like gasket and valve replacement' The pump
suction line shall have inline mesh filters. The pump shall deliver water to the hose reels'
threaded connector
7.L Hose Reels & Fog Guns
Thehighpressurepumpwilloperatethrough2separatehosereelsof30mlengtheach,andwillbeprovided
at a suitable place on the appliance, one on each side' The hose used for the hose reels would be R2 type
rated for a minimum working pressure of 27Obar & will be of min' 16 mm lD (internal diameter)' The unit
shall be equipped with two Fog Guns which shall be capable of dischargin g65-75lpm @ 100 bar in mist
mode. The jet range shall be approx 30 m (in still air condition)' These Fog Guns shall have a Jet as well as Fog
mode. The hose reel as well as the High Pressure Nozzle shall be CE Certified'
8. WATER TANK
The water tank shall be of min. 5000 ltr capacity & shall be suitably mounted on the chassis in such a way
that the weight distribution is optimized. ln addition a ZYo expansion space shall be made in the tank over &
above the water capacity. The tank sha, be fabricated out of ss 316 prates of min. 5 mm thick for the bottom
& 4 mm for the sides. The top & baffle plates shall be of 3 mm' The tank shall be of welded construction &
shalr be die_pressed on ail sides to prevent distortion & to ensure torsionar rigidity. Due care shall be taken to
ensure that butt_weld joints are minimized. wherever butt joints are unavoidabre, they shail be radio-
graphically tested. The test films & reports shall be submitted ai the time of stage inspections' All other joints
shall be Dp tested for soundness of weld joints. Complete welding shall be done using Gas Tungsten Arc
Welding (GTAW) process with ER 304 electrodes'
8.1. Baffles -. --^ ...r-^^ rho ,,ohirr
The tank shall be suitably baffled longitudinally and transversally to prevent surge when the vehicle is
cornering or braking. The baffre prates shail be of minimum 3 mm thickness bolted type. The fasteners used
sha, be SS materiar onry so that they do not freeze due to rusting. The nuts shall be tack welded to the baffle
prates. The baffres srratt be so designed that they do not nuc[re under any circumstances during braking
cornering or accelerating. The baffles shallbe arranged in a mannerto facilitate easy cleaning of the.tanks'
.?-
8.2. Tank Mounting
The water tank shall be mounted on the vehicle on a sub-frame using Rubber Metacones. Thls sub frame
shall be made from Anti-Corrosive Treated MS 4" section and shall be bolted with the chassis using the high
tensile bolts.'U' Bolts shall not be used for mounting of tanks on vehicle. The rubber metacones shall
facilitate to absorb the jerks and bending torsions in expansion as wellas compression mode without high
deflection. The manufacturer shall provide complete design data of metacones and sub-frame including the
load calculations and metacone quantity sufficiency. Tank shall be mounted on the chassis in a manner
keeping in view the proper load distribution on the axles. The tank shall be mounted on two/ three cross
bearers to counteract stresses caused by chassis flexing. The Centre of Gravity shall be maintained as low as
possible. The mounting shall permit the full contents of tank to flow to the pump. The bottom of the tank
shall be sloped towards rear. Suitable hooks/ lifting eyes shall be provided on top of the tank to enable it to
be lifted off the vehicle for maintenance/ repairs. The bottom of the hooks shall be suitably reinforced with
pads to avoid stress on the tank top plate. Sides of tank shall be die-pressed to give additional strength &
stiffness so that it does not distort due to chassis flexion.
8.3. Connections for Filling
The tank shall have a filling orifice of 250 mm and an inspection & maintenance manhole of 450 mm at the
top. The cover for this port shall be of hinged or threaded type as per the manufacturer's standard design &
shall be clearly marked with the words (either etched or raised) "WATER". This port shall be used for filling
the water tank from overhead storage tanks. Apart from the above, two more filling connections shall be
provided on the sides of the tank terminating in filling connections of 63mm male instantaneous couplings
made of GM or SS material incorporated with a strainer. The header & the line shall be suitably designed to
ensure that the inflow of the water into the tank is sufficient to maintain the output of the pump while the
tank is being replenished from other vehicles or from hydrant lines. These connections shall be fitted with a
valve to prevent water leaking through the filling pipe & shall be provided as close to the pump as possible.
Valve may be of NRV I Ball /butterfly type. One connection shall also be provided for filling tank from pump
itself. Connection shall be taken from pump manifold & shall be controlled by a shut-off valve.
8.4. Draining, Clea nine & Reoairs
A 50mm diameter drain line with a ball/ butterfly valve shall also be provided to drain the tank for
maintenance/ cleaning/ repairs etc. A cleaning hole of 250mm shall be provided at the bottom of the tank &
shall be taken down to a point below the chassis without reducing the effective ground clearance. The
connection shallensure that the water is discharged as far away from the wheels of the vehicle as possible, to
reduce the chances of tyre slippage. Suitable lifting lugs shallbe provided on the shellof the tank to enable it
to be lifted off vehicle for repairs/ replacement as necessary.
8.5. Overflow
One overflow pipe of suitable diameter shall be fitted to the tank. The diameter of the overflow pipe shall be
determined as per the filling connections provided. However it shall not be less than 100 mm diameter in any
case. ln case the inlets provided at the sides are more, the overflow pipe diameter shall be suitably changed
to accept the additionalflow. As a thumb rule, the diameterof the overflow pipe shall be two times the sum
of all incoming pipes. For example, if there are two header pipes are of 100 mm diameter each, the overflow
pipe shall be of 200 mm diameter. This is to ensure that the tank does not get unnecessarily pressurized. The
overflow pipe shall be taken up to 2 inches higher than the top of the vehicle from the inside of the tank &
shall be cut at an angle ofapprox.45 degrees.
8.6. Miscellaneous
The tank shall be connected to the Pump with a butterfly valve for ease of operation. The tank shall be
hydraulically tested at 0.5 kg/cm'pressure to find out if there are any leakages. This test may be carried out
in the presence of the inspecting officers or done by the manufacturers as per their own internal quality
program. However due care must be taken to keep all records of such tests for verification at the time of final
inspection. The inlet line in the tank shall have an adequately strong deflector plate, which shall avoid the
incoming jet of water from hitting the tank side/roof. All plumbing shall be reasonably accessible for
maintenance purposes. Screwed bends, joints shall be avoided as far as possible. All the joints shall be
flanged type & shall have O ring sealing. Rubber gaskets shall not be used anywhere in the plumbing. All the
outlets and inlets from the tank shall be taken by installing nozzles of suitable length and reinforcement pads.
.tl-
8.7 Electronic LED lndicators
Electronic LED Water & Foam Level lndicators indicating the tank levels as EMPTY, %,y,,yo and FULL shall be
provided on the pump control panel. These levels shall be indicated by number of glowing LED lights (no LED
Lights means an empty tank, All LED Lights means fulltank). The indicators shall sense the fluid level in the
tank with help of a pressure sensing probe. The indicators shall be located on the rear pump control panel in
such a manner that the Operator / Firemen can easily view the tank levels while being away from the vehicle
Repeater Secondary Level lndicators shall be provided in the driver's cab to help the crew members to check
the fluid level from the cab while travelling.
8.8 CABLE WINCH
An electrically operated cable winch of Ramsey / Rotzler / Sepson make or equivalent having capacity of
not less than 6.5 tons pulling capacity (single layer) should be provided and mounted in the front of the
vehicle. The winch unit should be complete with minimum 5.5 hp 12v DC series wound electric reversible
motor for increased pulling power. The motor and solenoids shall be grounded to the battery' lt shall have an
automatic load holding brake system for more strength. For free spooling the clutch design shall be easy to
use type with spring loaded pull and rotate system. The gear system should be 3 stage planetary type for
faster line speed and the gear reduction ratio shall not be more than 300:1the drum shall not be of more
than g inches long having 3.5 inches dia and shall be supplied with minimum 90 ft heavy duty galvanized EIPS
wire rope with replaceable self locking clevis hook and would be mounted on the front bumper of the vehicle
with suitable strong support and a 4 way rollerfairlead. The Weight of the winch shall not be more than 55
kgs A wireless remote for 12 V system or wired remote for 24 v system shall also be supplied with the unit'
8.9 TELESCOPIC LIGHT MAST
A pneumatic telescopic mast of Fireco or Will Burt mark or equivalent should be mounted on the vehicle' lt
should be manufactured from Anodized aluminium 6063 T6 alloy tubes and have a max diameter of 1-l-5 mm
diameter on its base and complete with a foot plate 150 with up to six fixing holes for bolts. The temperature
range shall be -40 C with anti- twist lock with safety valve and drainage outlet valve.
The telescopic mast should be extremely strong and designed with a minimum of 6 sections and equipped
with a special plastic locking system placed on the ring between the first and the second section meant to
eliminate any backlash between allthe sections, once the mast is retracted. The mast should be equipped
with an internal spiralled electrical cable with 9 wires with a section each of 1.5 mm2 and 13 wires with a
section each of O.22mmlthe group of L3 wires should be screened Each section of the mast should have a
thicknessof not lessthan 3.5 mm2 Fora bettermovementof the internalcablethe lastthree internal pistons
should be threaded to the corresponding section. The maximum height of the mast when deployed should be
minimum 6000 mm (from the ground) the retracted height should be of maximum 1.900mm both heights are
meant with the integrated tilt & turn unit. The working pressure should not be less than 2.5 bar and more
than 3.5bar. An electro pneumatic group of valves must be supplied and mounted at the bottom of the mast
with the possibility to regulate the extension speed and the retraction speed separately'
The light mast should have 4 X 1000 Watt Halogen flood light projectors in weatherproof casing. The
floodlights on the top should have a minimum electrical rotation of 360* by means of tilt and turn unit with
an ABS cover for inspection.
A 5 KVA portable Petrolengine operated Gen Set shall be installed at a suitable location in the rear locker and
necessary wiring / connections shall be given to the light mast'
9. FOAM TANK
Tank shall be of 500 litres, fabricated from 3 mm SS 3161 plates only & die-pressed on all sides to ensure
torsional rigidity. Complete welding shall be done using Gas Tungsten Arc Welding (GTAW) process with ER
304 electrodes. tt shall be suitably baffled & the baffle plates shall be bolted. Fasteners used shall be of SS
only. Bottom of tank shall be sloped towards the rear. lt shall have a filling orifice of 150 mm & an inspection
manhole of 450 mm. One additional filling connection of 50 mm shall be provided on the sides of the tank
with a ball valve for replenishing/ filling the tank from an outside source. The tank shall be fitted with sludge
trap with a cleaning hole of 250 mm dia & a 50 mm drain pipe with a valve & plug incorporated in it for
maintenance, a system for ensuring that sludge does not enter into the pipeline (so that the foam system
does not get clogged), shall be provided. The tank shall be provided with automatic venting & the breather
shall be provided on the top. The breather valve shall ensure that it does not get frequently clogged' The
material shall be either GM or SS only. Tank shall be hydraulically tested at 0.5 bar for leakage. Alljoints shall
be flanged type & have 'O' ring sealing only. All weld joints shall be radio graphically tested & test films &
reports shall be submitted at the time of stage inspections.
-5 -
h
9.1. Foam Proportioner
An around the pump Foam Proportioning system (RTP) with a selector valve to induce 3% lo 6% of foam
compound shall be provided. The proportioner shall be installed in such a way that it shall not be liable to
mechanicalor other failures. The selectorvalve shall have three settings. Each upward setting shall result into
an equal increase in the foam compound flow rate. The linkages of this purpose shall be as simple as possible
to avoid distortion due to chassis flexion. lt shall be reliable & shall not require frequent calibration checks.
The proportioner RTP type shall be duly calibrated & supplied by the pump manufacturer only.
10. PIPING VALVES
Complete pipeline circuit on the vehicle including water lines & fittings shall be of SS316 materialonly,
including all water lines. Allvalves (AUDCO/L&T) up to 2" size shall be lever operated SS316 ballvalves & all
valves above 2" size shall be normal ball/ butterfly valves but made of SS316. Seats of the valves shall be
easily replaceable, readily available & at least 2 sets of spare seals shall be provided for each size of valves. All
the lines shall be tested hydraulically for at least 3 times the working pressure or 1.5 times the working
pressure of the pump.A flow chart and schematic diagram shall be made and submitted with the technical
bid failing which the bid shall be summarily rejected.
1,1. FOAM/ WATER MONITOR
FoamMonitorhavingdischargecapacityof 1000GPM(US) @7bar shall bemountedonthetopof thefire
tender in such a manner that it can be operated by a crew member. The monitor shall be capable of
traversing through 360" in horizontal plane, elevating from horizontalto 75" and depressing from horizontal
to not less than l-5'and fully rotation in both directions. Monitor shall be TFT/ AKRON/ ELKHART/
ROSENBAUER. The monitor shall be UL listed capable of discharging water to an effective distance of not less
than 75m & projecting the foam discharge to an effective distance of not less than 45m in still air conditions
when operated at rated pressure. Monitorshall be provided withJet/Spraytype Nozzle.The MOCof the
Monitor shall be Cast Stainless Steel (CF8)/GM. Fabricated Stainless Steel Monitors shall not be allowed.
1.2. BODY WORK
The Foam Tender shall be supplied with originalsingle Cabin/ Cowl with seating arrangement and doors for
Driver and Officer. Further accommodation for five persons (crew members) shall be provided in the same
cabin without any partition with one door on each side. Modification & extension of original cabin for fire
crew including hydraulic mechanism (without partition) is to be done with permission from chassis
manufacturer. All the 04 doors shall be fitted with toughened glasses and be of sliding type window. The
glasses on crew cabin windows and doors shall be fixed in aluminium sections. The cabin doors shall be
hinged type opening outwards & hung forward with catch latches. The cab and lockers shall be of composite
construction with sufficient rigidity and reinforcement and shall be kept as light as possible. Pressed sections
of 40 mm x 40 mm x 2 mm thick Corrosion Free square tubes of sufficient strength shall be used for the cabin
construction as far as possible.
The rear equipment lockers superstructure (after the cabin) shall be fabricated in corrosion free/
Extruded Aluminium profile sections constructed with bolt and nut system without welding work and
panelled with aluminium plate by means of glue without any welding work. Mild Steel shall not be used in
structure anywhere,
Roof panels shall be made of aluminium padded plates. The roof shall be strong eno.ugh for being walked-on
and must be sufficiently supported. The intermediate walls and shelves shall be constructed from aluminium
sheets paneled to the Corrosion Free Sections/ Tubes structure by means of glue without any welding work.
The outer and inner paneling of the superstructure shall be done from 3 mm aluminium sheets. The complete
top of the rear superstructure would be covered with 3 mm aluminium chequered plates/ suitable anti-skid
material. The sheets of the outer paneling shall be bonded/ glued to the skeleton framework. Rivets/ screws
shall not be allowed. The area over the tank shall be suitably treated for slippage by chequered plates or anti-
skid material. The doors of the cabin shall be fitted with toughened glasses & winding type regulators. The
driver shall be provided with good quality large size rear view mirrors on both sides of the cab & convex
round mirrors for overall rear view of the vehicle from top to bottom & left to right. The cabin shall be as per
the latest national/ international standards & ergonomically designed so that the crew members are
comfortable in transit as well as are able to use the vehicle in an efficient & comfortable manner.
12.1. Seating
@
I'
The driver & officer seat shail be provided by chassis oEM. The crew shail have individual seating, with each
seat fitted with brackets for placement of Bieathing Apparatus in an upright position' The seats shall be of
the wear & walk away type so that when the crew disembarks from the vehicle the BA sets shall easily come
off the seats with them. The seat bottom shall be theatre type, which shall automatically flip up when the
fireman gets up, thereby freeing up the space for easy embarking & disembarking' The seats shall have
integrated seat springs to isolate shock while in motion. They shalr have a fixed type, seat-back recline' to
improve rider comfoit a ,n auto-pivot & return headrest for rapid seat egress' The side cushions shall be
easily removable, to accommodate all types of scBA. The seats shall have right seat belt release & a chrome
swivel bezel. lf there is space available, the seats shall be fitted with flip-up armrests. The seats shallbe of
Ziamatic, USA/ Seats tnc (Battalion SCBA Crew Flip Seat) or equivalent imported make only'
l3;i;r,"Tllffi shal be provided for storage of equipments & accessories wherever required' Size and
number of locker shall be decided at the ti[e of stage inspections. The lockers shall be constructed in a
modular way so that in case if the configuration needs to be changed' it can be achieved without major
modifications. All equipment stored in lockers shall be strapped/ clamped in a neat & convenient manner so
that it has an identified place. All lockers shallbe suitably labeled so that each item shall have identification
when it is required to be accessed. For allwater fittings like branch pipes etc., quick"release type couplings
(GM/SS) shall be provided, which shall enable the operator to locate the desired equipment instantly & save
valuable time.
t2'3' Roller shutters .rg the equipment lockers shall be installed on
FortheeasyoperationoftheFiretenderroller-shutterscoverlt
both sides of the appliance. These shutters shall be rolled inwarJs underneath the roof giving unobstructed
access to the equipment rockers & the equipment/ accessories fitted in the vehicre. Roller shutters shall be
made of hollow rectangular shaped aluminium links which shall be inter connected with the help of plastic/
rubber profiles, sealing the roller shutter watertight when closed. They would be durable' maintenance free'
weather & corrosion resistant & capable of opening in every position of the vehicle even in rough terrain &
on slopes. A spring mechanism shall be fitted so that the shutters are not held up at any point of opening' lt
would be easy to operate & shall ensure that the shutters can be easily pulled down' The sections of the
shutter shall be powder-coated to a smooth finish & aesthetic look. Guide rails shall support the shutters
over the entire length on both sides & make them corrosion free' The rain protection slat shall be equipped
with LED Lighting (to be provided by Roiler shutter oEM onry) which wiil ensure that the area near the locker
is enlightened. The shutters shall have a sturdy locking mechanism which shall prevent accidentalopening
during movement of the vehicle. A master switch for isolating locker lighting circuit shall also be fitted in the
driver's cabin. The shutters shall be of MCD France/ AS Dover/ oR equivalent imported make only'
13. ELECTRICALEQUIPMENT
Adequate lighting arrangement (approved make only) shall be made in all compartments' All equipment
lockers shall have internal lighting arrangement automatically switched on and off by opening/ closing of
doors/ shutters (LUMAX Make/ Roller Shutter oEM make). All the wiring shall be properly fixed in position &
shail be protected against heat, oir & physicar injury. To the extent possibre ail wiring shail pass through
conduits. All wires used in the vehicle shall be stranded copper or copper alloy conductors of a gauge rated to
carry at least 125 percent of the maximum current for which the circuit is protected & shall be uniquely
identified by colour coding or permanent marking. Voltage drops in all wiring from the power source to the
using device shall not exceed 10 percent. The use of star washers for circuit ground connections shall not be
permitted. Allthe electricalcircuits shallhave their own separate fuses, suitably marked & grouped in a
common fuse box, located in an easily accessible position. Provision shall be made for min' 4 spare fuses in
the box which shall be provided in drlver's cabin. All the controls for electrical system shall be provided near
the driver,s seat. The battery shall be placed in a totally enclosed box. Radio suppression of the electrical
system, which is sufficient to ensure positive operation of radio equipment without interference' shall be
provided. Arrangement shall be made on dashboard opposite to the fire officers' seat to fix a mobile wireless
set. power supply shall be provided from vehicle battery. Mechanism shall be provided to charge the vehicle
battery from external power source'
SUPP ARY EXTI NGUISHING SYSTEML4.
t4.L
Two
Drv Powder Svstem
Nos. (One on each side of Fire Tender) of 50 kg capacity Dry Chemical Powder Fire Extinguisher (BlS
16018 marked) shall be provided at the convenlent position on the appliance' Dry Powder extinguisher
system shall have 10m High Pressure Hose with pistol type discharge nozzle' The dry powde
-'r-
r vessel shall be
fitted with expellant cylinder (3kg Coz BIS 7285 CCE approved) for discharging the powder. The dry powder
containers shall be electrolytically treated for anti-corrosion. DCP (ABC Type) shall be BtS marked as per BtS:
1"4609.
74.2. CO2 Svstem
Two Nos. (One on each side of Fire Tender) of 22.5 kg capacity Co2 cylinders BtS : 1601g marked & CCE
approved) with hose reel (heavy duty) of 15m long high pressure rubber hose with discharge horn on each
side shall be provided.
15. FITTINGS & ACCESSOR!ES
Following accessories shall be provided on the appliance:
a) Two Spot lights in front (Hella / Equivalent make)
b) Two Fog lamps (Hella / Equivalent make)
c) Four Blinker type traffic indicators (OEM supplied)
d) One Removable type search light (LUMAX / CANARA) with 3Om cable & tripod stand.
e) LED Light bar min. 1200 mm wide with Aluminium Housing and max. 90 mm height with Blue and Red
lighting shall be provided on top of the fire vehicle.
f) PA system & Hooter of pHtLtps/ AHUJA/ GRAND make shall be provided.
g) Blue & Red strobe lights shall be provided on both sides of the vehicle. (One between the doors and at
least two on the sides after the cabin -On both sides of the vehicle). These shall be of the high intensity
type with regular and intermittent flash pattern. Orange/ Amber LED Flashing Warning Light shall be
provided at the rear side of the vehicle.
h) Tipping Type Ladder gallows shall be provided on the roof suitable for fixing a 10.5m heavy duty trussed
type aluminium extension ladder. The design shall be such that the ladder can be released By ONE
PERSoN oNLY without difficulty from a reasonably accessible position and the person are not required to
climb on the roof top to remove the ladder. The laddergallows shall be CE certified.
15. ACCESSORI ES TO BE SUPPLIED WITH TENDER
SI Descri ron
1. Aluminium Extension Ladder Trussed type L0.5 m
2 PVC Suction Hose with Light GM Round Threaded Couplings to suit the pump tnlet - 2.5 m 4
3 Delivery Hose lS
Marked.
636-2018 (Type-3), lSl Marked, 63 mm x 15 m with GM couplings tSt 1.2
4 Suction Strainer for ltem 2 1
5 Basket Strainer for ltem 2 L
6 Breaching controlled GM)Dividi 2
l Collecting Breachi GM 2
8 Pair of Suction Wrench universal 1
9 line ( 50 mm circumferenceLo ene 30mlo 2
10 Short line ropylene 50 mm circumference, 15 m loo ng 2
1.1. Hose Bandages Rubberized 1.2
1,2 Hose Clam 6
L3 rant Valve & Bar ) (Combination Set)H
1.
14 Fog Nozzle branch with low pressure licator with Head t
15 Hand Controlled Ma Branch 1.
16 Universal Branch Pi t
17 Revolvi Branch ( Revolvi Head) 1
18 Alloy (fitted with Nozzle of 12 mm, 16 mm, 20 mm & 25 mm) tSt
Marked
Short Branch Pipe Light 4
19 a
b
c
mm suction female screw coupling and 63 mm male instantaneous (GM)
female instantaneous 63 mm (GM)
Adaptor double male instantaneous 63 mm (GM)
Adapter for 1,40
Adaptor double
2
2
2
20 Nozzle Spanners GM) 2
21, S La nya rd n with Carabineer & Hook 10 Mtr each 6
22 Hand held LED light with Recha ble Batte 2
23 Flameproof Lam useful in sence of lnflammable Va ours of Gases) 2
24 First Aid Box for 10 Persons t
1.
1.
25 Large Axe with thick bamboo handle
1.
26 ade with thick bamboo handle
1,
Pick Axe with thick bamboo handle27
1.
28 Crow Bar
1.
29 Sledge Hammer - 6.5 kg
1.
nter's Saw - 60 cmCa30
1.
31. Hydraulic Jack - 1"5 ton
1.
32 Fire Hook
1
33
1.
34 inbuilt in cabin - 0L NoPA
0135 Bolt cutter
5
36
flush mode without shutting-off the flow. lt shall have superior design of rubber grip, twist
shut off from fog to stream and provision of teeth to provide dense fog. lt shall have a Control
Lever for ON-OFF position and a 63 mm size inlet connection. A pistolgrip handle for better
e nozzle shall be hard anodized to prevent corrosion and wear. The
tsoPerrUnst AsonctXtE ud Coeded Lof AIN ezl hS be a loymSCo H Hnd td oz chteuM ti U rpp
na wided aht fogstra ngleforaveh isttw ab sprayGOWP Itrade. haS6443 pety
id tJe &to tefa oSa h faave Fogclt sh ope3of ba5 r lityta low reUnrati effici nte pressope ob ly
r003 PML fofo et ndaremo hat 500nnda d aschnde ed ntlmus nIta eo o rgepen vusly
nta e rowt Thhe oh rizonreb5 a Uress800 @ pischd a caeS mco ned itybi rg pacp ray
ove totois fon chr ailha have rovs ngeItra ress reU pnu 35md 5-6at bsti a h a be ro pa
grip shall be provided. Th,
weight of the nozzle shall not be more than 3 The nozzle shall be CE certified to EN15182
337 Multi Flow Hand Held Nozzle shall be made of Light
64430WP Grade. The nozzle shall be hard anodized to prevent corrosion & wear' lt shall have
a twist type control for Straight Jet, spray And wide-Angle Fog. lt shall have arrangement for
selection of five flow ranges from 350 to 900 LPM by twist of a dialon the nozzle. The
horizontalJet Throw in stillair shall be around 35m at 7 bar pressure. lt shall have Pistol Grip
handle to provide for superior grip controlto the operator. lt shall have provision for change
over to flush mode without shutting-off the flow. lt shall have a replaceable spinning teeth
ring for generating a dense fog curtain, a ballvalve type handle for shutting off the flow and a
63 mm tnlet connection as per lS:903. The nozzle shall be CE certified to EN15182.
Alloy Extruded Construction As Per ISO
4
li
ha en 'eatBdSeht ctf nt ingot eS SA abMraD cott/ ighnMa fau uct re ikeRe d geutep
itS ae trCAre orb comnnder ith no Se pom so aite paSets hwit CA nbo cotU p cylraAppa
fa& CCtod NE 31 7eb maCE rkeUSS e hasofn 86 itre 300S baofr 54 m dn ratu io predn ecy
-Na Ufroed cm CESlve h abe rov otir eind & Sit' aAtEN 63 CL cvlm task ,o 3/l
38
239 Fire Proximity Suit made of DUPONT NOMEX fabric with coat, pant, gloves, hood, fireman
helmet and boots. (CE ma
4PYROJET Fire Hose with lnbu ilt Jet Curtain Nozzles flow 900 -63mmx15m40
1.
41 Petrol Driven Positive Pressure Ventilator ) - 16" Size - Engine of 5.5 HP, 16" Fan Size,(Blower
17,000 m3/hr, w t : 30 kg (appro to be supplied with ducti17 bl
1042 Fire Retardant Dangry free size from reputed man ufactu re r
1043 Fire men Helmet as per BIS from reputed ma nufactu rer
1044 Firemen Gumboots - Pairs(size-9&10No.), 05 pairs each
2445 chPloves-06 eaI rsaa& estosb HaS dn GbbeRu r ca atLe herNVAS,
02Foldi stretch er46
o447 Fire Blanket from reputed manufacturer
0648
0649 Life lacket
0150 Climbing Rope(30m) Nylon
03Rescue Kit set51
1052 uality (Free sizeChemical hi
0453 bee suit, high qual Free size)Hon
1054 Reflector jacket
0255 Door breaker
-.9-
!.1
il
Tool Kit
control jet,il
lpm
LPM)
ir
make
lt
lt.
Life
56 Mega phone o2
0657 Full body harness Combination with Sock observer safety lanyard
58 Rescue rope 60mtr. Nylon 02
59 Carabineer "D" Shape (SS) 10
60 Tripod and winch system for sever/ Deep Rescue purpose 02
61 Fire Entry Suit Free Size from reputed manufacturer 02
62 Foam making branch pipe 5X &1OXwith pick up & connecting tube - 02 Nos each o4
63 Caution Tape in roll 02
64 Barricading Cones 06
65 Chain Saw with 04 sets of spare chain 01
66 Rotary Hammer 04 sets of spare bites for drilling & Chiselling 01
67 Chipping Hammer 04 sets of spare bites both chisel & Conical type 01
68 Rotary Rescue Saw 04 sets of spare blades 02
69 Reciprocating Saw 04 sets of spare blades for wood & Metal each o2
70 Mannequin (Half body CPR) o2
71. Spinal Board (Back Board) 01
72 Cervical Collar 06
73 Hacksaw Frame with 10 Spare blades 01
lT.DOCUMENTS REQUIRED AFTER COMPLETION OF ORDER
The following documents shall be submitted in 2 sets:-
(i) As built drawing of tender,
(ii) As built drawings for tanks,
(iii) Flow diagrams,
(iv) GA and cross sectional drawing, characteristics curves &other details of pumps,
(v) As built drawings for installation of PTO unit,
(vi) As built drawing for electrical circuits,
(vii) All inspection and testing records for tank, pump, PTO, piping, vales, monitor etc.,
(viii) Three sets of operating and instruction manual for the tender.
18. PERFORMANCE GUARNTEE
The manufacture shall guarantee the design, material, workmanship and performance of complete unit for a
period of 18 months from the date of supply of completed vehicle. Any mechanical defects, faulty
workmanship or operational defects found during this period shall be rectified by the vendor at owner's
premises within reasonable time without any extra cost of DEPARTMENT. The tank shall be warranted against
leakage for a period of 5 years after supply in writing.
19. TRAINING
After supply of vehicle, vendor shall provide free training on operation & maintenance including chassis at
DEPARTM ENT/ owner's site at the time of supply of vehicle for two days.
20, DEV toNs
There shall be no deviation to specification unless agreed by owner in writing. ln case there are any
deviations from the above mentioned specifications / tender documents, the vendor shall give the same
separately for the scrutiny of the technical committee. ln case there are any valid deviations, these may be
considered by DEPARTMENT. However, the technical committee of DEPARTMENT shall have absolute power
& may reject the offer without assigning any reasons whatsoever.
2T. WORKMANSHIP & FINISH
The GVW (Gross Vehicle Weight) of appliance shall not exceed the rated GVW of the chassis manufacturer
with all equipments & crew. The weight distribution diagram shall be submitted along with the offer failing
which the offer is liable for rejection.
22. PAINTING & MARKING
The entire structure shall be prepared by grinding the welded surfaces, priming the finished material with a
zinc rich primer & then finally coated with a two pack epoxy based paint
{^
22.L. SurfacePreparation
once the paneling is completed, all the outside surfaces shall be painted with a good quality paint system,
like Du-Pont, PPG, Standox, etc. This shall be poly-urethane (PU) based paint with a life of minimum 10 years'
The bidder shall guarantee fade resistance of minimum 5 years from supply even if the vehicles are kept in
the open.
22.2. Vehicle Exterior Paint
The complete vehicle (all exterior surfaces) and monitor shall be painted with at least 2 coats of zinc
phosphate primer each of 50 microns DFT (Dry film thickness) and two coats of polyurethane finish paint
each coat of 50 microns DFT. Further improvement on the paint may be carried out by the manufacturer
beyond that mentioned above, to give better protection & surface finish. The color for the outside shall be as
per the latest international & lndian norms for fire brigade vehicles. The user name shall be written on both-
sides with yellow color'
22.3. Water Line Paint
water lines shall be painted with of zinc phosphate epoxy primer each of 50 microns DFT and two coats of PU
finished paint each coat of 50 microns DFT. Water lines shall be painted red in color'
22.4 Details Required
The bidder shall give the details of entire painting process & also details of in house painting facilities like
paint booth, etc. The color for the outside shall be as per the latest lnternational & lndian norms for fire
brigade vehicles. The user name shall be written on both-sides with yellow color'
22.5. Reflective striPes
Reflective stripe(s) shall be affixed to the perimeter of the apparatus. The stripe or combination of strlpes
shall be a minimum of 4 in. (100 mm) in total width and shall conform to the minimum requirements of ASTM
D 4956, Standard Specification for Retro reflective Sheeting for Traffic Control, Type l, Class 1 or Class 3' At
least 50 percent of the cab and body length on each side, at least 50 percent of the width of the rear, and at
least 25 percent of the width of the front of the apparatus shall have the reflective materialaffixed to it'
22.6. Marking / Name Plates & Owner's Emblem
All the lockers/ cabins shall be provided with stainless steel Name Plates with letters itched on it boldly
indicating the content. Owner's emblem in original colour together with name (in Hindi and English) as below
shall be written in golden yellow colour on both sides of the vehicle.
22.7. Other Miscellaneous Works
The inside of lockers shall be painted in pale cream/ grey colour. The chassis frame shall be painted black and
wheel arch shall be painted grey/white. Under frame of Chassis shall be painted with chlorinated rubber
paint. The appliance shall clearly have the following marks at suitable locations'
1. Manufacturer's name & trade mark.
2. Year of manufacture
3. Pump serial numbers and capacities.
4. Capacity of water tank and foam compound tank in liters'
5. Engine and chassis number.
6. All instrument control & valves shall be identified with properly itched metallic Name plates'
23. ACCEPTANCE TESTS
The acceptance tests as mentione
Vendor shall ensure that design of
acceleration etc. All inspections &
DEPARTM ENT's rePresentative, whr
,d below shall be given to complete satisfaction of inspecting officers.
tender shall not affect chassis parameters such as speed, turning circle,
tests shall be carried out by the vendor to the complete satisfaction of
o shall have access at all reasonable times to vendor's works. All testing
a ra mete ca rri man m detail to ra nce
tests shall be offered
shall be borne bY the
vendor. The vehicle shall also fulfill the requirement of RTO as per BIS 10460'
23.1 Pump test
The pump fitted on the vehicle shall be subjected to various tests as detailed below-
(i) The pump with its all fitments will be subjected to Hydrostatic testing on a pressure of 25
kg/cm2.
(ii) The pump shall be run dry for a period of minimum two minutes at 2000 rpm to'check the
integrity of mechanical carbon seal. After this test there shall not be any leakage of water
- 11 -
through carbon seal
(iv)
The pump performance test shall be carried out by running the pump at constant RATED
RPM and measuring the discharge at various pressures.
The pump shall be subjected to endurance test for a period of four hours continuous running
and pump shall deliver rated output of 4000 lpm at 1.Okg/cm2
During the endurance test the water shall not be replenished in the cooling system and the
temperature of the cooling water and engine oil should not exceed the manufacturers
standards recommendations for the continuous operation and engine should not show any
sign of stresses.
During the test, water shall not be replenished for the cooling system as the temperature of
the engine oil shall not exceed 1500C or the engine manufacturer rated temperature for
continuous working whichever is less. The engine shall show no sign of stress during the
period of testing.
(v)
(vi)
23.2 Stabilitv & Gradient
Stability of appliance shall be such that when fully equipped & laden, if the surface on which the
appliance stands is titled to either side at an angle of 270 from horizontal it shall not overturn. The vehicle
shall be tested on a gradient test ramp at an angle of 1:4 as per BlS.
23.3 Endurance Test
The pump shall be tested (23.1 above) for a continuous period of four hours non-stop & the water shall not
be replenished during this test & the engine shall not show signs of overheating. This test shall be offered at
the pump manufacturer's workshop prior to shipment. The testing charges for the same shall be borne by the
vendor.
23.4 Priming Test
The priming shall be tested as per the latest standards & the system shall be subjected to a test at a suction
of 7 m. The priming shall be achieved in less than 23-24 seconds.
23.4 Articulation Test
The vehicles shall be tested for articulation & shall not show any signs of stress during this test. The clearance
in the wheel wells shall be checked for tolerances.
23.5. HydraulicTesting
Allthe piping shall be subjected to hydraulic test pressure of 15 kg/cm2 for a period of minimum l-0 minutes
The pump casing shall be subjected to a hydraulic test pressure of a minimu m 25 kg/cm2.
23.6. Shower Test
After completion of the fabrication, the vehicle shall be subjected to shower test as per the norms laid down
under BlS. The appliance shall not show any signs of leakages during this test.
23.7. Road Test
After completion of allthe above mentioned tests, a road test shall be carried out where the vehicle
shall be tested as per the parameters laid down by the BlS. The braking, acceleration & top speed tests shall
be checked & recorded by the inspecting officers.
24. INSPECTION
3 Stage lnspections / test of the above Foam Fire Tender shall be carried out at fabricator's site by CISF Fire
Wing representative & management official as per details given bellow:-
L't Stage: lnspection of Manufacturer facilities, Inspection of chassis, lnspection of material for fabrication,
inspection of under structure, Water & Foam tanks.
2nd Stage: Placement of the water & foam tanks, fitting lockers, pump & PTO.
3'd Stage: ln Finalacceptance test/ lnspection (PDl)shall be carried out in accordance with above standards.
(i) First Staee
a) Review of mill test certificates and co-relation of raw materials used for structure & body
fabrication before start of fabrication.
b) Review of approved drawing used for structure & body fabrication before start of fabrication.
c) lnspection of frame work/ under structure (for cabin and body) for soundness of welding and
fitment of chassis, Water & Foam tanks and dimensional check.
(ii) Second Stage
lnspection of structure, mounting of sub-frame with meta-cones and proper foundation, Fitment of PTO,
Hydraulic testing of water & foam tank before mounting and their dimensional check. lnside/outside
panelling of sheets. Hydraulic testing of pump before mounting (Pump shall be hydraulical
t2.
ted at 25
kg/cm2 for 30 minutes and during tesu no crack or leakage shall be developed)' Hydraulic testing of pipeline
and their dimensional check (Pipeline shall be hydraulically tested at 15 kg/cm2 for 10 minutes and during
test no crack or leakage shall be developed). lnspection of proper installation of pump, tanks, piping with
supports and their dimensional check. lnspection of fabrication work, cooling by pass valve and pipeline
leading to heat exchanger, and suitable connection for its outlet, while checking all relevant parameters' All
tests shall be carried out as specified in the specifications or as per relevant lS whichever is on higher side'
(iii) Third/ Final Staee
Testing of accessories/ equipment mentioned in Annexure-A, lnspection of proper installation of pump'
tanks, piping with supports and their dimensional check, four hours acceptance test of pump of rated output
at normal and high pressure, maximum rotation of the monitor, angle of elevation and depression' Testing
of all other normal items of equipment, fitments, accessories, light, fog lamps, search lights, revolving'
blinker, spot light, rear warning light, as per specified standard' Testing of duty points of the pump' including
deep lift test, road test, braking test, articulation test, gradient test, etc', when the vehicle is fully loaded'
output and throw of monitor, throw of side line with water and prepared foam separately' testing of
priming device while working from open source of water supply'
25. TECHNICALPRE-QUALIFICATIONCRITERIA
(i) The manufacturer should be reputed and shall have a credential of fabricating and supplying a
min. of 20 similar fire tenders for the last 02 years with Corrosion Free Extruded Aluminium
Profile sections, sub-frame system for Tank Mountings & Metacone Systems'
(ii) Manufacturer shall have experience of minimum 10 years in the field of fire tender
manufacturing. The manufacturer shall provide Po Copy in this regard along with offer'
(iii) The manufacturer shall provide complete technical details including drawing, design and
photographs for the 150-6063 Aluminium Profiles in case if the bidder offers the same'
(iv) The manufacturer shall provide complete technical details of the sub-frame design and
metacones. Further the load calculation for selection of metacones shall also be provided by the
ma nufacturer.
(v) The manufacturer shall provide a letter of authorization from the oEM of Fire PUmP, positive
pressure ventilator, Nozzles, Water jet Hose, Ladder gallows, Hose reel, HP Nozzles confirming
the availability of warranty and after sales service to department after the supply of product'
The letter shall be addressed directly to the Department /Organization only' The quoted Fire
pump shall be CE certified to EN 1028-1 and 2, its subsequent amendments, EN 1050 and ISO
1,41,21..The CE certificate mentioning the MOC of the pump shall be attached with the tender
documents without which the offer shall be liable for rejection' CE certificates of allthe required
CE certified equipments shall be provided along with the bid failing to which the offer shall be
liable for rejection.
(vi) The bidder shall provide complete details of UL Listed Monitor including the drawing, UL
certificate, Details of the DC Drive, Catalogue and all the relevant technical details mentioning
the features as required for the monitor failing to which the offer shall be liable for rejection'
(vii)A complete set of drawings, like general arrangement drawing, load distributlon diagram,
drawings of the tank(s) (if any), shutter and drawer details (as applicable), wiring diagram,
hydraulic circuit, and power transmission through respective PTO shall be submitted along with
the bid, failing which the bid shall not be considered'
(viii) Bidders shall mention make & model of all offered equipment, and enclose detailed technical
specifications/ literature/ brochures (in English) which shall be annexed with proper references'
Bids submitted without supporting documentation shall be rejected outright'
(ix) Compliance to technical specifications is the essence of the contract' A clause by clause
compliance shall be provided. Any deviation to the tender requirements shall be treated as
technical non-compliance & the offer shall not be considered any further'
NOTE - pDl clause is mandatory & to be incorporated at the time of indent of above fire equipment' The CISF
representative for inspection/PDl shall be detailed by Fire Hqrs
TJ6I lut4
lT-
fuil-qE-n {mr{ Awefrqg+ fu+qn{
l^(4\'
i-\
ANNEXURE-B 
SPECIFICATIONS FOR MULTIPURPOSE FIRE TENDER  
MULTIPURPOSE FIRE TENDER WITH AERODYNAMIC DESIGN  
1.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:  The agency will fabricate the Multipurpose Fire ten der of Aerodynamic Design (as 
per Technical Specifications enclosed ) after procu rement the BS6 compliant Cowl chassis make of TATA 
Motors/ Ashok Leyland / Eicher or equivalent (Simil ar ) Chassis, shall be minimum 16 tonne GVW and if not 
available in 16 tonne GVW the same shall be selecte d in next higher GVW, but the chassis offered should  be 
able to meet the  all technical parameters requirements as per our NIT and the appliance shall incorporate rear 
mounted pump of 3000 LPM capacity, a water tank of 5000 litres capacity, a 500 litres capacity foam tank, 2X75 
Kg- DCP tank, water cum foam monitor mounted on the  drivers cabin, a CO2 system of 22.5X4 Kgs capacity 
with hose reel, one 10.5 meters aluminium alloy ext ension trusted ladder. However the detailed specs o f the 
appliance shall be as per the detailed specs in following chapters. 
2.  SCOPE  
2.1  This specification covers the requirements reg arding design, procurement, fabrication, testing and supply of 
Multi Purpose Tender to be used for the fire fighting. The scope of supply shall be inclusive of, but not limited 
to the following; 
• Chassis 
• A centrifugal type fire water pump 
• Power take- off units for driving water pumps. 
• Foam compound tank 
• DCP system & CO2 system 
• Water tank 
• Round the pump foam proportioning system 
• 3200 LPM capacity foam-cum- water monitor. 
• Hose reel (35mm synthetic  hose with nozzle length – 50 Meter)- Normal Pressure 
• Hose reel high pressure hose reel of 30 mm (30 meter length )  
• Body fabrication 
• Accessories and spares 
• Piping, necessary control, fire hoses etc. complete. 
• Cooling system of indirect type with open circuit. 
 2.2.     The cost of BS6 Compliant Cowl chassis to be included in offer. 
 The vendor shall be responsible for supplying all e quipment / accessories and properly fixing them on t he 
chassis as described in the specification. Other de tails and requirements which are not covered Under the 
specification, but may be necessary to complete the  multipurpose fire tender and / or fulfill the oper ation / 
performance requirement shall be provided by the ve ndor who will be responsible for the design and 
construction of the complete appliance to the full satisfaction of the owner. 
2.3  GENERAL.  
The Multipurpose fire tender including all accessori es shall be designed, manufactured and tested as pe r 
relevant Indian, International Standard wherever ap plicable.  All the equipment and accessories shall be fixed 
on the appliance in a compact and neat manner and s hall be so placed that each part is easily and rapi dly 
accessible for use and maintenance. The centre of the gravity of vehicle shall be kept as low as possible.  
3.0  CHASSIS  
3.1 The Multipurpose Fire tender shall be fabricate d on BS6 Compliant Cowl chassis of TATA Motors/ Ash ok 
Leyland / Eicher or equivalent (Similar ) Chassis ( Minimum 16 tonne GVW and if not available in 16 ton ne GVW 
the same shall be selected in next higher GVW). 
3.2  The Chassis shall be capable to take gross vehi cle weight minimum of 16 Tonne.  
3.3  Engine shall be capable of developing power 130 BHP at 1900 RPM.  
3.4  The chassis shall be supplied with standard to ols kit and spare wheel assembly.  
3.5  Chassis shall be complete with standard featur e and accessories provided by the manufacturer incl uding the 
standard tool kit supplied by the vendor.  
 3.6  The vendor shall confirm that the proposed TA TA / Ashok Leyland/ Eicher or equivalent (Similar) Chassis 
(Mnimum 16 tonne GVW and if not available in 16 ton ne GVW the same shall be selected in next higher GVW )   
is capable of taking the pay load indicated by the vendor and shall be able to meet other duty requirements.  
 
 
 
  Any restrictions on performance of chassis, obser ved during execution of order due to increase by ven dor in 
pay load and other duty parameters shall have to be  corrected by vendor in consultation with Management  
and chassis supplier. Such correction shall be at no extra cost to NTPC. 
 
4.0 PUMPS 
 
4.1 WATER PUMP  
The Water centrifugal pump with automatic priming dev ice shall be of any standard company. The pump shal l 
be of normal and high-pressure type capable of deli vering 3000LPM@ 7Kgf/cm2 and 300 LPM at 35-40 
Kgf/Cm2. 
4.2. The pump shall be capable of delivering minimu m 3000LPM at 7 Kgf/Cm 2 at delivery outlet.  
   Vendor shall match other parameter of operation with reference to Engine of chassis. 
4.3 The pump shall be capable of taking suction fro m: 
• Water tank mounted on chassis  (In normal condition) 
•    Open water source through flexible suction hose up to suction lift of 7.5 m, with the help of 
automatic water ring primer.  
 4.4 The pump shall be rear mounted and shall be ac cessible and readily removable for repairs and main tenance.  
It shall be driven by the chassis diesel engine thro ugh a power take off unit and propeller shaft. 
4.5  Pump Casing shall be made of gun-metal, Impeller shall be closed type and shall be made of bronze. The impeller  
and casing wear rings shall be renewable type, The pump shaft shall be made of stainless steel and sha ll be 
fitted with antifriction bearings. The pump shall h ave self-adjusting type mechanical seal, which shal l be 
capable of running dry for minimum one minute. 
 4.6 The pump suction inlet shall be so sized and oriented to facilitate suction as per clause 4.3 . 
 4.7 The pump discharge shall be routed to: 
•   4 nos. outlets (on rear side of vehicle along wit h control panel) each fitted with Stainless Steel 
reputed brand make IS/BS marked ball valves and ending in ISI  marked 63MM, Stainless Steel  female 
coupling fitted with stainless steel end caps. 
• Foam-cum-water monitor fitted on top of vehicle. 
• Hose reel of high and normal pressure. 
 4.8 The strainer should he easily removable for ma intenance. 
 4.9 The pump shall have a suitable box type suction strainer made of Stainless Steel. 
 
5.0 PRIMER:   
5.1 The pump shall be fitted with independent primi ng system made of Gun Metal. 
5.2 The automatic water ring primer shall be capabl e of lifting water up to at least 7 Mtr. Depth (Suc tion Lift) at a 
rate of not less than 30 cm3 per second in the suction line. 
5.3 The auto primer shall work satisfactorily even if it is left dry for a long period. 
6.0 POWER TAKE OFF UNITS 
 6.1 The power takes off unit for water pump shall be of reputed Make Iike VAS/SYALL/WEBER or equivale nt, The 
PTO Shall be able to meet performance requirement of pump. The lever for engaging & disengaging PTO shall be 
provided in drivers cabin. 
6.1.1: The Vendor shall submit a sketch showing the  arrangement of PTO Unit for taking power from main  engine 
chassis to water pump. 
6.2 The drive assembly components (shaft, couplings  etc.) shall be dynamically balanced and vibration of any 
parts should be minimum. 
6.3 Necessary support for PTO Unit, Propeller Shaft , Couplings, and Universal Joints etc. shall be prov ided.  
 
7.0 WATER TANK:  
7.1 Capacity:  5000 Ltrs. With additional 2% expansion space. 
MOC:- All in SS-304 
7.2  A calibrated dip tape shall be provided on the tank to measure the tank level. 
7.3 The water tank shall be fabricated out of minimum 5 mm thick SS plates.   
7.4 The water tank shall be of welded construction and shall be suitably stiffened with angles / flats so as to 
avoid buckling and distortion. 
 
 
 
  
€:* XF&SiSI ****Y., llt' TFJ }ry $ t # YPS {5 }, i**13*, n ?: e
'7.* T1* ter:* sh*ll r*ye *elfl** c? rr:inirr:lx 3 r*ri': t*i*k**s$ s{Jilably s*pp+,"!*d. ** as t* *u*t*
'!val€i Surs'ili: du* t0 mrvement +f ';eh C:e
7.S Tar,k shxJl 1:* pr*r'i*** wit* a*tl"r,*r':*x d*ti** =i i*e $+:31* f*r o'":np suelisl].
7.? Tr,** lJ.**., *f i-rp*=ii** m*r:h*lsa *l 5** t:.:m sire s1*11 b* pr*vided cn t*p *vilh a Hing** a**,
brll able +0rer viJitn siJ:iable gashsi
7.* *uils*1* lif:i*g :*g* *lall b* pr*vi*rd ** lh* lan:k *hell t*, ****le il, ia ** Eifted *lJ 1l=* u*hl*tgf*r
r*p *,ir*:, re'p l,*;*t7t**t.
? g lhe:ar:k =l* l r* fttiec ygith a slrdce :r;p 'ih€ bcttc*l sl ln€ lank sh6!l h.3\'e a i rGht s *p*
toivards :he sludge traB
? g 1 Ti1* t€nk srrali raue a :learring rra'rn+ie hcle ci 25C nm Ci* lviarthsle shall be fitted ',';:tn
5*x*: *r*r*piB*,+iti: l*l mark*d **le Vaiue.
f.g ? Tar,k s*,**i* *e .x*Lr*l** c'r:r +h*s*is ir': * *a**er. ke*pi*g i* 'u'!*s t** pr*p*r i*ad di=trii:":1i**
.s* lh* AEI**. ?ar:l sl*ul* ** re*isngular in **ap*,
?.S 3 Th* ierrt **ail b* s* mou*i*d a*d b*lie* as l* bring i*e ***ter of gravr:1, cf th* aFp*ance ac
,c?,' a5 p*ssilie
? 9.4 A C:,;:tal v;sLi&l ',.r*:ea le',,e1 ind:CatO"Snali be grsuiCeC rn the dri,!.e-S cAhin
?.*.S ll":e la*k *t=sll *e ;ttied with. overflo-ii pi*** *l suila,crl* 'jiar**t*r sr:d ihe *i**harg* *::r* *hail b'e
l3k,** ia*rn **l*,-.; t1'r* ei':,*=*i* r,vit3*i.lt red;ci*,g tr":* effective gr*:":=d *:ea,i=*t* *lt** "'**i*l*?.*.* A e*it**llj pr*teeied waler level inci;c*:*r *f the graduel** gl*** lube *::*ti i:* pr*.:ided c:ts*
l* the **,rrtr*i par*l isclation val.;e shall be pr*vl**d i*st *fi*r ti':* ts* *f ssint rr,e=. +.*e 1e.*l*.
iank icr in* l*uei ;ndicator
?.*.? T*e tsr,k *l*.:! ** fili*d Ey r***r1* el *uilabty si=e'l ini*t lin* lr*g:: pr*s*xnzed hydr**t *'t*ir*. 4
***',63 r*r:r:,' ** ir*i*nt*r;**1is mal* *c,-ct*t*;'$ i'-l? ** r**r s'ce anc *n€ *:1 eacF' *i** *6
{*an"rJ,*,*t*r a***Bri shall b* **nrect*d 1* 1t':* iii;i*g li**. T** i*l*l ir-** 
"'ciiE 
** tr..,'?',C*c H:h
*.til€bi* l{FV's .
; 1t Th* r*nr. s\*l: be *t1leS wrlh cn* f rl ,:! or:f ce Ti',* i:ll;.rg er:irc€ shall bB on ncl '*Es :han lSir
mm drarn*ler sn,l Ehall b,e fttec .&ith an i:rsBerliot n-,anRcie on ihe ts* oi'*eier tark
?.11 g 1** ::",n: d,i* pi**lilr* sl*all be i*ter fi**, th* 1a:"lk ?* tl't* s-.1:{'* inJ*t *l tr* p''*mr
rncor'*erat ng €rr.'1ucco make SS ball ,,el,re Separate,",alvei 3l f6, p6ncrming crf;ere:!
i**#i*;': sh*il ** pr*vided l* c*rrtrai the fi*'-t *l waler.
?.aZ &li rT+==,i** *J t*,*a shali h*'"r* *r.rit=*l* l€;ra*r***r*r':t p**=. ?i:* l=r:k =h=il l:av* *,f*cusi*ll
tsr;eC b:saiiier
?.13 A :5'*,r*.i *i= pip*tir':* xill b* t***n fr*rr 1a*k t* *u*ti*r1 ir':l*t *l p**. p :r:c*rp*ra:irrg *nC Ausco
mak* SS Bali :'a q'*
**per*i* satve {5: {*r p*,rl*rn.ii*g difE*rent fr.*r:*ti*:"rs shal ** pr=vi**$ :* ***tr*i ti:e flt*- e'
rval*r. F,::y *i ?l'* f*li*,,r*i*:g *p*l*li*::r *t'th* iir** *l €me,rg***! ***ul* ** p***ibl*.
' TPft;TanK ts ourtp:c reels;
' i{,FG .t,hy*rani tr: Fump t*raels'i
* itft t*ysrani ts rrels]
s TPlul rTarFi tr pitrrp t0 m*n;!crl
e PTi Fr-mi.= it tankl
r Cll fr separat* EaJl '-'e,ve ci SS lci p€rlrm,ng lrie funcli.:ns $ha{l De f,rot'ieed
e.* r*Al* T&a{,l{
S.1 &f*s*: {*{:l}F*ilrld i**k *f *** litel* nei caraerty shai: i}e ?abr;cated o'*l sl 55-394 p}*les *f
tx**itrts* S *t,re t:hi,=*.:**,* & *t t*p. ?-.,.+ Sl *xf*rr*i*l't *p*** =ita::1 
** pr*',+i**d i* t** t**k *,-":,*r
ar':* *,**=* i***: .***',:p*l:** aap**ily"
Th* t*** stiall ** *f wel**<i .*ns?r*clioil a*d xhali *e *.;;t*b;y siiat*fi** v!'it* E* a*gJ**Jt:at*
:: as lo F'{e'i{ Lur"iling and Cls'.ol:itn
fhe tank shalt have baffles oi 3nm thickness. SS-3S4 p.lates so *s io avs;o .iialer surgrrr;
d;e tt m:vemenl af vehicle.
*;ri**l* }i*i*g :*g+ =*a:1 L'* pr*vif*d +n ::* la*k *h*iJ t* e*,4*',* it t* *€ trft** *ff t** rehi*i* .:=r'
repA, f $; rep.lAeei1'ie.:ri AS neCe$SAr!
e 5 Th* tar,:l.: cna:i he litie* witi. a *ludge tra: The t3llom *f the ia*k s::a ! rA'.,e E slighl Si.fpf
tsr'*ar#$ sl:-idge i: ap
11 r
*.3
r+r il:ErH8fl qale u*lue.
H,*5€ ftf€L $y$T=tj A siafid*rC CO: efi"ripft*at ,.r y 2i i Hn* rnfsr:Fl,,i '1.,* -h a:*L^. ^i*- -r:L s '11;a '-u;, 1 *,ai:i*=, !: Lr,!":;: :el+,t+lrlll{aai1, + ts J{.,5 a**. C{i ,
ilJ{',} :n *::htr site *f he i:s:h:rl*i hr..rin.- nF! ,.f
'i+*1ix : i-i'J .'iJrl-i.l'il$il:;lg :ata*+:raI+* x.3i i.}Euirahi* f:r ec', f e*d':g iirm a crfitrsl v*,.,.e shair L.e .equrrec t* be p;*u;:ea Til* c"(}r;;#;re,*uii** i* *e 'nsiellel rn th* c*c r m,fx:*:g!c *t !h sirrrr: r*.i"* ",;n ;.*-* ha.F- ar ak---.*- '* 'ta:==*,..; the C*C r m,fx::is[ *r ih str:rE lt:ke.t;,,iih st"in! bas* If fhas;ls
*l?*:l b* iill*.1i'sith :;***,ii*d
12. U.*nil.9r.{!.V*Jer_l F*amt
.=
I7 Tr,* taftk lnail b€ pr*v:*ed,*;;th 5i,lfultri-,Jra !nspcetic.n qEr,h:te wrtn hrrged ali* hcttabi* csver*vrin su{able G33k8i
5 6 H."eather V*ive *halI b€ f:lcr.rcec f:i auirr*airc \renlin* *f foan ccfillictic$ l*rik.E g Fearr l**ei :"!diiat*".tf gracu*:et slsss iilr,e a;'*:t 
*b+ 
pi:viced {i*s€ t* tn* e*rt.}: p*r*i
i* .! i*=j**i**.,,":*]-*,***u!d,:** pr*r,:.i-.f*,5 ju*1, ***. a:** :*5 6if g*i*t. r*' *
tlr tr6f,Sf6rrin,S Fr:em f nrn.*, ,*d s.-+ dr6R.E i* :ne f*am iinks_
*,il TGA$E PR*PORTICI{'NG SY$TSM;
4 ,^. ,-;
:j.::: -^:-,iiu::i::cf nl p'$f ctiiox i1f strsie.-'i s*,*jt b* ilr*'i.d*,J r-.,ih thres s**:rgs +i meier nqusy:Li' d5 r ;* *E;i & e tt - "F
$ 1 s.uxrl e*v ft*rr :i*s-rp !ube a-ange meni tre.m +,_iri** sh*utd b€ p:e,",icec
1S &CP $Y$ !.Fffi;
l,i i . *rre r-x"nbsi *a*f, iCafac:y. ISF,y-=s) *f drr r,rr*der irre *xtlr:guish*r s1a!: *e f x*d +fi ie,ih*:ce oiirre:er:*cr \r,ifh a se*areie i1,ise cf"lC rr: High presrure h*se i,tifr=irf irJ;";; #_;:;pe *rd*r vess+i S,rali be itteg wttn i? rjl,s i, N [,:"*- -^;,r,;.r*.-.*
:,E*r,nrgec *; *=- *i r*: .r,**-rl ,-1,"**".=-Jn,u-*"nl::; ;Il ffi,;#;X"=J:;; ?* #;'#:L_:ccnia'ners rhal: ts Fe* rii ar!*.y c*ai=e *r.i**irn;ytu Irui*=*ililnt!-rcrrcs.or ci,i:r,:der -;;;i;f':E .ipprCVed Anfi f,lleJ',ir:$] fiOri0-ar**n;*- ch*:ccf*rp h=<s ft.f tr'., err i Biv
E*#F+r,*,1:*+J,a .54.,95:fi:ry::*r**:33: i:i::* ft:*ri**i;l;a:iii* +i=* *a d:*:.i*.*rl+ *d srag€ i**:p#*r;i*+,:,.:
1* 3 -:*sa'*'ii*"t**i ***lf]*u** un +*ssel i* *,la* t* ** s-*+.!i:i** ,,*y *.** f*,b.rj*+1*l *t li1* :tir::* *iCelrr,erul 2"* gla*e rnqi:*r?ir*
1,*,
=*'= .J 3 f *.,+r:*4ri irr*s*,* u*,-r?.".*;i,*"1.'ii:i$;;11r;il'X??,=-l:-ulXf *XfjT-, =u*P,g,e "r',; ar.J *hal, hav* tr* +f:. j!als :ertir;;al,+l ,+ Cif, N;_;;.t?'4 :n??j:tngu,ishef sha:r rt lrr I'l:,"tec i,tl cirlI*-"-i"-"0 sh*,t be f,lre,t v;i:h j,:lrj*"r,F,*
Une l'#at*r c,.rri i**m rncrito; ifall r* pr*.!,i,:ed -rn ihe ttu al sutle1,le i:,Cal:Ot. t,i:il caF c.il2Ct lpn" *i rveier ,G ? {3,'cr,".: ;"u li.,r*:*n*lr 
=* .-i-u"- 
"nf 
iliu*.=,ng r.}ic*Ur. 36L. ,nh*rie*nrat *i*ie +?iu .n -.!io ,n ver:irat pr*** 
"ti"-i;;tG; iu*g; or 60 F"4 ,,r.,,*rer; Th*de:silcC ;pe:rilcSi,tr *f !*r* tdrniicr" ,n *= ,*d*..
'i* mm
Eerrel +i searr{iels heavl- prp* G.,:Rm*ial srvrvel gcrnl iGeer
liSe: f:r Rli:zirtai I uenicai lTlei;e.r manL*J *p*r*rrcnJ}L*:+ Q*1*li*ir
E:3:E1.Fif 3.A**rS,'Jg*-"-gJ.#"J-rfSaA{*}f qtf 3S.17,:*
:: *1=vati*r: {ili8 a+?q8.i,ici
l+
}1
f*{*t*r:*l *? ***$:r*=ii**
i vle cI tsoarn use*
*i****;g* *ap**ity
i l"ir*!t Cl i flgiea!1j
**rie*,*?*:
&*l,f i8*li$Jt+tll l€***!,H ;.
At- F iiA i t- Fcam
1#*t*r. *i*. ?* *:ir*. .
'F*am :-*ir:. *5 :"*tr*.
13,+ A**Y ?Y*rA:3 1 Fres$ee leclrcr sf sr-:f,cier: $tre.)e:h sheli be ls*dfcr super s:r'Jctur*
i 3.2 *xt***r*- l**d*r {35 f1.l *hai: b* m***t** ** **iia*l* gall*w* tiii*d $ith i*i}*r* a*,*
***,ig,**'3 1* l**jli:at* ***y =:":* q*l*k r*rciel 6i th* iad.J*r" by **E i?:,*l: lr**': 11* r**r ei:he
ian*ar
13.= l,l+ *,*rt *i th* ***'g**** sXaij r*du*e grcund cleara*ee *f 'r**i*i* i* 1**a 1*8*** *rrs.
The, n,ghest *?rt *r tn€ appliafice v*ith lhe ,acde' ari :1*nrt3. mctjn:ed +r i: EhEll ftct erc*ec
3 €C F"llr !:xn'. lhe grour.ci le",el The widlh of the !.ehicle ift rfady corCttio:1 shail ngt exDeeEJ
?.5 i::q?=,r=. ?** c*r:*tru*t,i*r: *f *';F*r sl:"l:rt*r* s,h*:lj **l I**u{* t** **gl** *? *ppra*cl, ==?+tr
3l riegree
13.4 & ra{tr*+lig* *irip*s isl s*al; b'* allix*d t* th* **ri::":,*l*l *t l*,* *:tr,*,ar*i1":=, T** slrlpe cr
C+mbrnai c,r *i strpes shaii Le minirn',m oi4:rch itCrO mr:"i In l0lai &iijln
13.3 F:*'gi*j** *h*li h'* r+*d* t* =t*r* l'*'* r':i*. B& s*ls in th* b**k re=i *f ti:e *rlv*r, :ffi=*r
*$* 1,t* *.*,* ***t€ ,+!'it+ sriitabi* *la*:p* a*d bra,:k:*l= '**,i:t:re th* BA s*':s tsinsie ai'ir:ier. s-,;':
r*st *rri sh*il **t bs k*pt ;r': * &arrging t*natlrt:l
LATDEft GEE.LOWS
*ali*l,** *h,all ** pr*vided t* *arry 1*,5 *'rir *lurr:!*ur: *l!*3 V*st*d l**-*,*r**r:i*r*:::ng t+ *lS
T*+ d*=ign shall b* such lhat tt":* 1*dd*r *an *e re1***e* l+ithr:tt diff:cul!: lr**': * r***Gila=ry
*e***3ibl* p+siti** € *i:*ll **r**dy r*ll*rs t* al:*€ *a$y'r*rit**r=,*,-*l b}' *** r***
****l** 3Y5TE**:
lraireet [eo:rng t-vsten cf :pen cir:iirl :,.rtre:nr,sisi'nE *i s=e:ial r.:eat exeirangerc shtsl b€
pr*rri*** t* **xble *;11 p*r<*r oxtput d,*{*g fl'nl* *Fr*:.*ti*n wilhaut &.*y ,*5;11on *i **gire *"*
PT*. *ai:**l* fauges soth fci eccling '.ry*ier & t*b**ating sy*t**: sppr+prt*t*ly r**rk** ,ti:i^
t.r*r*.:*l *p*r+li*g ter:ipeiat-*.'es shaii xe s*i6*:y pr*viri*d €n i**al*d ** i*strui:1*i!l *ar:=i ::i
*r:vin,g **ffifa**e*: & dupll*at** *n pum? *p*ratir:g e*ntr*l p*:":*,1-
14' 
?l?1?J*;-d rLin"rber oi loc!..ers shatt b+ cesigned s.rch that an erther sise I2 Nos 22 5 m
1**gt* h*a* +** k* ea=:ly **rc*x**el** ir *i::gi* l*y*r ,*** *{r:ipr*er':'i* :":":*y **
a;eomn',ilcai*d Jn maxtmuf i trvc iayers Suffi;renl nLrmle-s af ioexers s',8 I hc prc?;dBC :i
**r*,t*r:-,***1* *iJ tl,* *qulpm*rt:s+'a****s*ri** i* a* *a*ily ac**ssiute rlaniler
a2.* All i*-t*:r* **sll ** pr+ui**d e;iln ft*ii*r:yp* =*r:il*r $+*rs.
1:.: Rr'lt*r a*ult*.s s*€il 'be al haii*r,v re*langular shap** & r**de lr i?: Ai*-,:iri*rl
:a:a,e:rc**t:**+1:i* li:rtis {onflected b'l me}u= *i *la=ci* pr*?:}e=.
:t.4 ft*ll*:" sh*lt*r *hall be i**rard r,:l]ing lype a** stt*li b* p:*vid** witb g*ide r*ijs +;'*i
**ti.* ,*-*tl ** **?* *id** t* x*ke th*m t*r=i*n fr*e.
1:.S R*ila: **r-ii*rs shall have lackr*g ara'i*€ry*fii* t* *r*'i€=l a*ci**nl*l *3*ni*3 durirrg
n:tver:renf ,:f vehicle.
1:6 Ai i-,e lccF,ers sheil b* iiilel r,,iln interflal lrghtlng ,,vhrch shajl *3 caFabl€ +t 3e'nq
autsmatiiall.l switched CN and'OFF by:he apening cl shuliers
t?.: L=*k*r= =,**ll **r* arranga*:*nl* f'*r **Jl-*r*i*ir:g *l ,*:*y 1€3t*. e*!*ri*g i=*id*.
12.* $uffi*i*=t lJ*s. *f t*e**,rs shail ** pr*vi*a* f*r *1,*r*9,* *f *il ae***s*ti*s li=ieJ ir
A=r'r*x*r*-1, *r':d fcr olher ec'rlpments rv*i*h *ra r:*ces*at}'{+r F*ar* T*nder b*? *,*t *j!en r
F,--r-x*r*,-i. t****r* *i:alt a,l=* 1,* =r*,+ii*S 1* ****,"n*:*d*t* * l'J** **F Exti***js**ts er i*
<* ei**"iry, All tne tccL*rs ii':= I ue pr*vi*e* *;illr 6 *:r* ttri*k, vui+anizea sy,:inei,c -ia**{ ff}*t
*t ***,:r:r an* *p l* 13 i**h** ** thr** *id*=,
:!:
M
E : -3-? S *.5 I F I 8€ $T H-.lV E]IE 1 W g.1.l*T FC { $} I S I I ? sJ ? - e
.*,3'*' ,, ,ry5**=.#**a iel sl*I**+ *f {=:g=i *.**. *{€**I]*{i ****5: **:',b*,i=r: *i*e=: *-t ta;,r**"****Ii:
.&uxiJlary lsan'':;'rdus'cr 5!3:3r,i!*iated ln'ru3h h!creRr ,r,,aier s.8$€ur*:g.€*u:rec f+r
=;t+at y Sick ''g uF iiaff frrl .f[ari' lE':* ir.e ii,:lrir d*vr:* sh:ulj ificucl :1,r ltat": ai l-,* rr.,! €l
;#&ier pr*s$ure *l j * Kg ,C*'
*e Br*#Sed *l ttle .e3r sida 5f *re
::: "
:t S' l{gj*,*3.,?a=a :FrJr:rr F
15. *fi*l$i
t,*"1 Fe*f:*fipst*;
ai taiit pi$ing ,r: {+em circr.:rt sh6ll be cf SS"3*e
Li 4f b*tl "*ivce i* f*arr e+rtu:t slsii be c: AU*e * *=A* gS-:*+ u*lh Teft*a-r s*ais
1*=n=.,, ,,.,..,. +?:*el.*if i**..,*l:*'= ** *?..,*,€,,Firy*+,-&i*g,4x +at;*g,.5,625,.sj***,:r:*urt',vhrcF ruii. **c # e*-t*t: ,,c,i:h i*si-,1 sclutirr.' trie**eler "uir,"r*j ilr+: *e *,f EsAl' Ftplr"rg shs:l bs a*signa* t* ra'** mi::imum irJssur* Cr*p and *crl,eve lhe .cquire*
,* *'*:tre... #..{ ,,*1.,ti*fi**l+*x?***, ,6gp+s:g**#+a*..*- i*uti**#y r.eut** +r :.f *rr# rl.tedes,*r] ar*.*sure *&'*;€';er ,r: r* +ase w!1 lhe [n*e be nydra+ir:aili,"i*"i**-" l*e+ ih;;1Skg l+r::i pie**uie a*j rhalt ue ai:;e t* tr+l* rhe pressure f*r ,ninim,"rr: ? h*urs
'i?. HQS€ ftXEL:
1i'1 *n* **imai e**e rsel *hali b,e pr*u:ced end m*u*le# cn *e v*heie #=ee r*+: s*aJiii*+€..i* i.*F6:.:***...ffi,*+r*,,,.;4*U14 *** i* +:x *+:*,,tij* ;=*,,, , , ,::,,,: :, 
,
€?'* , ..? *i# :gr**rr*#***t:g:+*=**==ll,=*,: #-=.?}:ar: +.* kgrc,-r:, :: ,:,::::,
3'?,*, *.**,j***.*.*.4,.**a=i*,*t 
=*-.+:::.;,*+**,.t**:.t*f3.:+;i*,*.*=t:#+**,*E*,,**,.p 
,.u,r*ga
rie r'*Ee resj_
.'..,..*.l $#,..F *.*:J*:**f*$$,,@.,*1*h Fi**irt€ ll***.,:***+..i,**:,= ;.,**g++j*ix*{*.:, e-i ai**,,.*?' k**.''*r,e$=*1*:'.*q*11**:*+,sir* px*-p .E-*i:,** *a*+,i.***::*=,$,:r,***=**:€+,:€*:::t*,: *:,::*u**u*u,,u*r,,u6e fr*m citi:*r slete oi ffr* ap.*ti*r*e. *-r*vel-,rg guide lev*r *r.:*tt *+f;tte*;;;;;";;;-;;frrm kir*i'rg j ?si*irr,g. f*e 14= si€$EJre H+s*-rl* sf:*I r+i b* ;;';il; 5*6tr;6a,f;*u.h
shalt ** eS Kgl;mr-
':e *a$drft€L r*wt-
ee adeqr:atery iluffiinst** punp-**ere{;n3 panei s.lc::
1';;,,;,;,:,,:;:,,,,.',.;,-1,;;,1:,,',1,,,,,,, ,,: **ili ,**f+€l*,,***lr*],:t€l::l**::*1,:gi** , ,:
::: ,,:,,,:,::::::,:,::=,:: ::,:,,:,:,::,+*** f"l: Fl-**S1,if* g*U*C +At,,*?***.t*
d's+ffirg*
J.
5
1a
:u-
?f:r*atied su#r*n ,r:iet cf ,*ates #Jiftp rqEft fla*k +apC**s{t i*r using il** a-:xiiraryf*a= e+r*pu.r* p,ii'rp trU*
ViEUai ind5c6ftj$n *h** gauEe t-rl^ €rlgiegefiert *l *f+ -"uFrq+r* T**npera*r* g 
=ugaRFttt ndrcal*r i*r pxm:,
E*gi*e *il Fr*E*ure Sa*g*.,}*iek *p*n rq m** vaivJ.
Lrvel Gx4e *r F**m &,-,t'ater r**ks.
Preming V*1,'e i+r tqate. pumc
Sy$*+n SCf,emat'c *ieh*C a"'g.S ffst+
*per*tin* ir*tiu*tr*n pt#e
C**:paund Prerawe ga{,Se caltbrated as per l$"*$i f*r wsi*l sucti**
{elv* i*r he*e r+els
pnere:C irrsF*et** r:at* *nd ftil$h,** *ut rft*tru#i*i1 plak iE*th 4*red o*hras$ #ar*sl
:,:::::ll:::::::1:::i:::l:,,, :: :::.::::,.:. .::.::::::t :
i,1:,11.a..=r2g!-ii:a==.r),:]+=;..i+=
l* *d*iti** i* t** *,b*t*, a*y *ih*r it*i*s th$i he r*ay fin* es**xti*l f*t affiei*nt *,p*r*i;*r:sla i b'e prtviJrl by tne vefico. at =*i':able iocatjoni facn lever s,rrrict. v;iu€ garjgr,
Out:siiiclst etc sraii ha,;* identificatronS ma,Je Cft rnetal plate anO Culy riveted.
19" ELESI$A&_E.YS3.EJE:
All impcnenl el*itricai circui:s shal'i:aue seCarcte fuses suitanly indicated & shair be gr*upe{
inlc a c,:mr:gr ''use t*x loca:ed rn ar aca€ssi*'e posiiien ln Drrv*r s cab an,l fitieil ,.v,th nJans for
carrying spare iu$es. Al, tne wiring shali De drpote & properly frxed rn posrtion acd not be €xpcged io
th* *im**?it*l* i*r F.*t**t;*i *g*:*=t h*at. sl & pt':y*i*al i*j*r1;. **nduits shal: be r-rs*c ,..".h*i*ver
r:*t*s*ary. Y*a s*ali *ilb-*it r***g *iagr*r:l *l*xg u rih the ofer
Al. +**.pnr**t'* l**k*rs s:.:xil h*v* :**i*rdrr*t li.g*t* **d t**s* sf,a;l be +perat** =r. ii'rs*,r:*. *i *
m*secr $,&lic* {1,#* rr*y.: *.1 the d**h brar,J i* th* d*ver's ea*i* i *s '.4r*,1 ** lr** ?h* }**al i.c, ir*m
OCkerg I
Tr:e st,iic,: ili ihe Strec shall te prcvr,leo tn ihe :eit c0rner !f re dash baard {i{e*.- i,rnt le{t
sde i
Jwc fctr l*mps sr:aii be iuiiab,ly'ataered lc lre frcni bul::Fe- ol rhe appha:rce
fi*u*rs* li**t* wi{* *n"*ff b*er*r, *ri either sirte shall b* fixed *ui',a*!y al fi":,* rsar *i lhe
aptrlia.,ce rt ih wire rne:h rn si,:Ch a.ltann?r tO pr€',,eni ACC:deii:al danage b,i l:e rrr€rcen rvhjle
moi.:rling :hE t€*k :08.
"q :ri.kle type *att*ry charg€r shsi be pr*vid*d l*r re*h*,rqii:* tha ba!:*ry i,:'r **u A ie# p:l*l
lar-:p :nc:ca:irrg 'r.'h*n :he Satteries are b,ein3 cfisrg6c irom an exierna! sr.:pp{y- Ena,i D*
^ --- - .i, ^)prt v{iuru.
e0. ?A3jiY!r{s & rySBKtirSl
20 1 Veirici* ar:cj m:nitor shoulC bs pAiried rr..rfh 2 iTwo) csatings cf zrnc phcsora:e ec:x,,,
prjrrer an{: l,i..J iiais ci poiy;ret-rare iinrsne.J red parnt
;*.: Al, t** i**k*{sj*ai:ias *t'i*ll ** pr*-;ided }Eiih Etair.}l*s€ sl**i :'ra,*:ep,i*les :;r:ith l*tter it*n*cl
** it **i*iy ir*ieati*g th* e*;:lc*t.
=*.3 !Y*t*r !i*,*:***ld b* *si*ie* r*d a** i**m iine i* 1,s;gu* **l**r pair;t
2*'4 e r:!ir* appli*r':ee *la!1 b* **ir:t*d i;: 3M I D:"rp*r"rt *?rlJ, *u* ,*n *oinu, ts,hade n*. 5J$ *lg'* 
=-1978i 
arr.J parr.i c**ic'rmir:g 1* *i3:*33'1974 *r':* l,"uc{n*rs sat i::* *,? i*r-
r"*=i-g .S***i* e*at spr*y painti*g *n **t=ld*.
:*.5' ?h* *,iu'r,* e,*rrp.alixar:t arr* th* irsrde leckers shalt h,* pai*te* in 5ale cr*ar:,
i F.J**:* *f l
I.tI uflCer i
I _ 1++i3s,*i
i*em* *f ****rt*ki*g iG*.*t. *f I**i= Uncenakirg;
C**JTRAL II**L:STR}AL sE*IJftlrY FCnCE IFIRE }.'IING;
Han':e *f *;':der 1€ki*g
**z ***s g:ci? Ea ia#TlT,{q
sh*lj b* *,'r:tle* in Engiish in g*rde'r y*licw c+l*ur i;: En*lir* ** **e side *Hrndi ,:n tht athei s,de ,if tle vehicle. On :h* frer:l O,, the u*hiil* ftRf TEHDER
Enu lrsn.
f*.* ?*a insi** *f t,** .**<ers s*all b* la*ri*at** rvit* ?.3 rni?r a+1:*+r *]x=i***-: c.***x*r**pllates
** : ?h* *h*=si* fr*ma st1tsli be painted bla*k and rr*he*l ar*h *hali *e p*i*1*d:xl,.rit*.
:* S li*ci*r fr**:€ *? ehassi::t"rait *e p*inie* n:lgh +hl*ra**iu-* ,ul**ip*;n:.:c s rh* applianc* slrall ha're ihe foilcir,;rg marks ai suitabl* Eocatrc:s.
il i
sil:ll b,e ."t,"iil*n i*
v
l:.
..a,:
,ii
i::
+:
ti.
t:::
l...
!:
i::
::,
,:.
a.
i::
l!l
.::
,i
* '{ea. +f 'r:anr:faciure
+ P"rn:p ggs:gl 191'![€r an.l eapaciiy
. Capa:lties ci fcam anc wate!'tailk.
r Engine and chass s liL!-r']ber
. &ll i*slr*n'!**l **,rtr*: & veises *hali ** i*sl:iE*d r":th Fr*p*rly :ic*** *:*?*llie
*^*--l^t^^
2*. e&&is.i.-*€Ei$Etffi :
fh* r*liG sti**t*= *f spplian** in*l*ding th*t *f ariu*ra *-*,bi* **lJ,* *e ***:***
sti-;t-re r**** *f 14Jl* *lVS i'SS pr"e**** s**1i**. aq**r* {,*bes arrg:*s at6 ehal]nel$
'.*i:h +b:1'::ir:ir.rrz1 par,*:i*g, ?he +*reFiel* ..{,S *lr**a*:* ***]i Le =j** plat** *'r:* tt1*l}
pa;'ried with etnc rreh primer and epoxy parnt f *;'b*ile;'c*rrosroft !"eslslafice.
21 .1 Tw* {z**t a*a13* +** {*r +f'c*r and ane fcr driv*r shalt be pr*';ideC.i* l** **#-. *r*
$s*i fi:r 5 *r*,**"r*x**r* sl":al'i ** prr,*i*** b*li** l*.* *tli**r *i:d dri'":*r ,s**:*. ?**
*eais *h*i1 n* of go*C quslity anc ]ate$i ***ig;: ib**i{.*l *f-* a**lt x;il* 1** *rz lhl*k
crshirns Alt* gctJ qualili 'ej.iroua::e arrd';,'a:hable seat co'r€lt srai: be prou'e*c
.21 2 Th* +*bi* *h*uid lar.'e i*ur d**r* it ***l: *:**]. Tl:e ***r *ial ape* =rll'"i';r*s*abin docrs sh*li *e pr*vii*c r,rittl strli*l*r pr**f **f*ty ela**es a,*d *h'all *lt,* r+
*r*ti*** v+iih !h*ir **,r*r::*rl m*t-*1.sft.
:1.: Iirsi *i* **x x*de *l fi=regl*ss *l-:all te prlvr**i **d fite* i* if:* **bi* al *u,it6,*l€
loceticn for 10 cerscns & crnl*nls as ser The Fa.:ter es A$
*1.4 H**-*}* l?*p* at*p* **d ra,!s:haI be pr*tid** *: the *a*il'r t* assisi th* !r+i!*"!,s=b*r*
ln fiFri in ar':d out
?t 5 Fr*vi*i** **atl bc r-n#e tc !:or€ ivic ,"t':. 8.n. a*t* i:: t*e b*rx r+=l *f 1l':* #ri1.*:", *fi:c*t
*rr* tl:* ar**, i**t$ '.+'it* =uitaii* *l=*':p* *ni =r"ack*t= '.{**l* t** *.5. **1= {*'fr*r*
eytin*eri shsil resi a*d *h*l] r's: be kept i* a h=rrgi;':g *.*'x,Citi*'*
21.* T** *r*?r *abin stn-*i*r* shell be =c designed s,3 **
vibr*ii*r'rir*,*li**,i'lel*$yratl*- ir': t*,* i!'ile*'J*d rJ*a** c,< ve**k.
7a -7 Trn",* nu*r*er* *l larg* s** vie*rs afid rear vrew mirr*r$ shall b*
t* a!,*i* ai':f
p,*Yided *{:! e*ci1
?'i fl
?1 1fi
..ii^ -:,uct
Tie artiire i;oa: cf the cre',v oaLhift shall xe nr}'.'rde$ wrth 3lv1-make v':r:!' rniit iig r'
r* i n i *::,* r*T **m ti rirk **sg r,vith a *ir-*i<i d i**i *le *
*a*.i* *,**il *av* *r:* r**f light a-d l+r* *;**Igf'i,*
Tne Faneling cf vehrele shou:d be done frgn: i6 S'"fuG aluminlr:fl checueiec p,a:e The
l*p *f fl**r Jri*r:k ***il ** pr+v1,**d witl: ?.* *1r, thrck alum:rum ,:hequ*r*e!
=3. 
*?*U*TU H.EJf &&i**rff**H ;
27.1 T*e *ir,:*t+:*,,'iran":e w*rk *n ch*ssis a{,,* tt*1*; e**l* ***}l }* *l :."*id** ****liu+t"ri
*r.:* ry:a** ll**': 3?r':m x 3?*:n: x 1 3 rr*r= i*i1*r"' *tS =tre'" B"rt cr a:c d siar-:**
be*p,',*** *a*h h*rir*ntal *r:d v*rtical sguare **ali be n:sxi*r..*r 4** mls
22.* Th,* **,tire r+*l *f i** ,,,*a'}lil* i*el,;dtr:g lh,* =r*r! *Ebin :*p, e*tir* .*ar. *r*ei **:hi* !,**t,
l**k*r ft**r *** *i**= *h*li h* n:**e i:*,x 3.**":*': :hi*k st-:**l* *l l*3 *** s,h**a= sfall
be ballel ',+ the frane for ease in remcual ot the taftk ior recarrs
=?.3 '*u*i*p fiAKe a-ti-';:*ra!i** r**b*r r-..r*r.r** *h*11 ** pr*r'i*** *-'*:le x*urtirg :**
tar:ks etc. of lne chassis
??,4 Al! lig*t iixtures $hair b'* adeq,;ately pr+te*t*d *y Fr+vi*i*:* *.l:i, r*v*rs *r *il':*r **:t**l*
eleffe.lt
3?,5 Fr*,p,*r dr*i*i*g arrar.=gem*nts s:a;i ne pr**ld*si *z tl:* *,*l'ire r*'*1, *l*w,:abi* a**
i**i*,e tl:* l**k*:S.
ZZ* F.rea ar"*urs the mOniicf *perAi.C:1 SIA;I De prcviceC,..jrtn 1S S'o'o'G anfJ:Ee &
aiuminr;rm chequef*d piate i'ft additicn :a imn: t-4S shectsi end shali be orrisd t3 ihe
16n:,*.
22.7 Ine r**f *l the c**i* s**,*ld b.* rigid +*,**gh 1* t*ke l1:r* v+*ig*l *{ *i,,* f*r**** s?ith**i
any dsterrorat;or
"*3?-* "t5 { F r R F*HEE. I y FX-?"I }tr S I r*_I F.E".[g } / S I 1 2 G 1 ? : &
3?.* Fr.*p*r *****s i*dd*r *-it* Gr*b r*,is =nd trn*ckd si€ps ***'l ** pr*r*i*** !* gi';*
$**e** i* t*,r r**1.
3: * &c+*** *x** *1:1* ****lfu*l*d i **vsred b1, non-slippery *1*l*ri*i **alJ *t *t*,.lide.J
wl':ere';er s',eps or ladCers for cl:nrbrlg aie lccated
33.i0 *t+r*g* rs *CP *nd CO? cylirde:s bottalx =ia',es and *,Fara siar-i*?rJr* *,h*,*i* **
r :+i+r**,*,-.sil* *:ir* **gi* ir** {ra*:e.
c*. *"Er{g&*r, ry€qgJ* sExEa
l-re vel:iel* shaii c+nfc'n: in aii ress€c: ci iile pro,r:srcrs €crtarned rn the Li V Ati 'if88 ar:
l*.",J. E*l+s 1*** *i io *ny *tl*r *:it,..rie rT':aCrfi*ati=ns o, ,*-*nac,**ltt's t**.*** ir**-: t;r':":* t*
tir*e. rlll ii'?€ ***l*=eiit necessary far R T 0.'s *l*ar*n** sh*ll b* pr+v:*** ** v,**ie1*=
&SCTPTANCE TESTS:
-
?h* i*fi*s,ri*g **.*Sta*+* s*ali ** ,3lr** :* t** ***tpl,*?* s*li*$a*li*r *t l:i1* ::sar *rrith* l arJ
*xtra *.*r. ?h* ***ig* +f th* tender s'hall b* such tilat it shatl **t eff*ct 1** ***E*rs
+h*r**:**elie t* *pecjried by th* ,:ha:si* *:=*-faet*rEr s**h at *,F:ead. l*.*jn* *ia+l+.
eicelera:ior€iiasF€rl$':C450-1963rRealirmed2010i 1$'35*-?f,r2crrelev*n: tS
fgSElE*3.} l* *dCi1i*.i t* ti?3 ic*i l* sfteck lne purxp fulflll$ tn* rsq,*ir*n:**lg laid *+*;r' ,r,
ihe F*n'* ep**:ficatia*s tl're *ur*p s*ail run rcr f*i.:r hours {+ntr*r:*i:sly *** x**t th* duty
p*j*ls. &c*,*,r*i*glir, duri*E ;he tesi t:rs ,vate'i:-: ti:* *16ine ';,**lltg *ysl*m shsl] -tt sx**** t**
nr*xir*,**-: i**1tr*rcaure *l er"tgin* l**ricating sil shai: not exc€ed tn€ fii*xi*'!,.Jrr: a*fiFerciur*
r*+*r**'t*,*,**d: :b"'r'tl":e rair;facture ar:i the *:':gi-e s*ail *h*'*r r:* sig'l-: +9 dlsir*ss.
ttxs$euli*,E€s-r Ql Pu l$f ; :
Furr:p si':efi ** i'iy.*ra*li**,ly t*$ted a1 21 kg;'r:m2 ?*r 5 r,'rinr:les *nd dvri*g l€ea n* iI**k *l
l*,x**g* s***1* b* **,cd*Fed,
*El"*.8"81*S.!:
?h* pria::*r ie*1 *hail b* **rri*d ai;t r*il* a v**i*,*i lift *l *"r*asut** trorn the water feve; ai :n*
+*nt*r *i ***li** ey'* *l the Fu*-:* ir": *rd6r 10 che;k the fulfillr*nl cl lh* r*q,*ir*,ri:e*i i*i* *,*'*n
i,= prim*r *pe:if;c,*ti*r*.
ra4sEauir,odEsi:Esl "
?h* i**r* **n* li*,*s ir:duct+r selrclor ;el'.'t anC lire fo*m n"oriiier u+ill *,* *e*t*d i* =ali*fy tl*
p*rf*rr*a,*** .**u::.*.r'?*r1ts ss p*r *ur *p**ificatia*.
E*AUIEEIEi:1 Tt:**gh t1* **f*ffi***e *f the appli**** i* r:=d lest ?yili m*i*iy d*pe*d *= ths eil*rn=
*** *h***i*, t,1* f*11**,v:*g pcrl*rman+* i* th* r**d lecl'r$:':i *e desrrabl*
,ii] & :*a* s***d a{ ?2 kmth c. level !r*u,:* **ali be r***iiy **tain,a l* re'it,l' lhe *pp}ianee
l*ily l*d** ,-r'i:h**l irail*r.
iilt Th* acceferaiion silail De such lhal wrth
appli*;1** c**i? *tt*in = *p*e* *f EC k*ih
msxir,:*:E tirxe *f 4* ***cnds *rr * sm*cth
s r{aril': rur:*ing **gix* . ahe l*liy l€*en
fi*r* *l**dirr6 s:a* thr**g* ti:* g*,*r* :*,
rcsd in l!:a **s* *i *ia**l *xgi** *r:';*-
!'€nial*i
isl T** =er",r'i** ii**t *f*r*t** : br*a*in* *y*ter: =hall ** s**!: as t* *ia,p ihe frliy l3*E-
*rplix*r-.* r*ithin *x {,*-? :*e +*iGt *i xhi*i t** hr*ak :* ap+ii=* ,-:rl** lrauelin.g ai 3?
kml*r *1*r:g * l*ve} dry r*** . ?i1* .**** bi*ak system sr6il be G€psr e *i **idi=g th* lrr:ly
l**** .**pii*n*e sl*l;*n*r. *r = d1'*u:fac* gradi+nt ol '! t* 4 *:**r in ::*ulral g**,r.
.M
I
*?&S:}L*?Y:- ]e
*:::::jl!:v ?l .h: *p.tinnce ,r,iil garn cepenJ *oth ci: tne cr*ssis a1d iaerrca:icn of rhe bo.cy =ne:*s.,i.*l*l m**l lak* g*,*d c*'18 t* **l**l *,ssibr.'ti*n *l a*e l*** ar"r* keep ttr* ***t*,r *{ graui:y i* ;o*;: p.css,ble Th* s,.i i3bi i1'., 3J the applran:e shall f,e s*.* ti.ii t*-**i t;t,v"equin*e; ;;J i;,}*!;icnlrticn nclucing cteit End ii ths sut:ece o,r,,r,hich tl"e aFpheir,:e starca 'ii,ri#i- -no-r rii*. taJ30,rt '?i ',vhiih creriurr,rg rr{r,s rs i*y:r<l th= angle ,:t s*'j*gr€e i"** t;e n*i,r*:.:uj
,€?t; .".f1* i5,$1.lxs1n. *f l'*e appli*::** s**ul* p:*,..i** **i?**i* fa*iliti** iar **f ri.,ing *t3t *llit* l**i sp*ciii=,I ***u*.
2e sEAqE !ry$rrcEtsN$:
T+c; *]ac3'.':i** ir,*pe*ii*r:s i i**t *f ti:* **.*,.,* Faam Fir* Te*d+r l* ** *arr:*d *u? *: i*bri+€t+rs'r..c,ks L,.r lhe rnsFe;:rn! sff:ce.s iCISF & fuf*r:agementl
i. E*?-*i3sq:-
!rsp8!{ion cf struciure mountin,; oi su*frame'#i:h nlets;cnss ans prcper fsilfidaticn Fitmenr of FT0,l{;+di**ii* l*sti-* *a *'*t€r & f+a]x t*:.:,k b*f.=r* :::*l":*ti*g. i:*=i#*;,*r.:1*i** p*r:*l+*g ,*l g**rt*, *v,J:r**?:r:*s:inq tf pun-c ce'*re rr-*untirg testtng cf prpelne :ise*:t;+-, *t fa*r,llt,u.'"Tro-"t"lor;;n d; #;;r'ral'+e *i:d gip*ii::* l**#:r:g l* *s*t exe***g*r j.c su:abri l*nn**rini tu, it* *uti*1, pr*l;*=:ni,1, tu*: otp+i?*. ,*r*ri{ir* *f tr?*,, iitr=:*nt *i prl-+r, irhiie crec<ing *;r * *r;if*r***t*r*
'i. 
$ec_a.sdlEr$l $lcgs:-
T**11** *{ a:*e***ri*s i a'q*ip*:*nls r**ticn*.j :n &*r'':exi;ta - ,a.. i*:*r i.:*urs ill-:r** *:*i:,$ r*, }.lp * :hsul for FiF seelran: a€;eptance test of r,:nrr oi raied cutrJr ai lirniai ,..riogn?-ullr"*,"n,ur,,nu*
::_t.1T'_:: 1** n:-*r:.i:*r. *-gi*.=i *rev=lrr:-'r"* iur.rir;;;-:;;;;;; *i ** *i**r:-:*rr**r ir*n:s,*r
ll*:F:::*.f;r, it'ma*l*' *Yi.^-jil= ligl:, icg i**1rs. ;e*rcl ligr:i:, .i*orrin*, ;l;-;*r.;;;;'r,*ii, i*n','#ar-!ng l,gr:t BS cei lpeurf,e: s:3njsrgiestrns +f duty .rojnre ri.Lne p"r-rp ;nctJci,1. f,€ep lrf: iest, rcad test b,rakirg:est r.",hei ihe vehicte str:;iv: t*a*** *:*lFLr ssd *=rax *f **n;:*r,'ir:x*;". ;;;i;;- 'liri J**#'*n* p,r*p*r** f*are **p,ar*t*r"uteslifla cf pnm;,ra der,ce ,,'rhrle v;:-king tcn roen ,;;r;; .; -rri-, -iep,y
?;:*?r-*?i=r:: ,*,*,*k *r *.,***+ *l**ir*,*i;** *+*k i.*r.1i:* g*i*afi** *i t** ***r, ir.rert.+*r=:G bc{+1 *p*r$ti+g ***:::f"*t +:*int*'*:*r":** pr+*edurs si:i;r ** iu**i**.tn* ***ii*l'J*]i;**t,r** iji**trat** s**r*-*a:*:;e "v'i,iE rel:'eilee nr-nbe-S nr al. lh+ ,uear;np OetS.
i*r#.H -::1T*=:j1+# 
i*s=+*ti+rl $h*.i *'e i* *e**rd***€ i* is i*4** '**h*r* *ppli*a*t* *** *,* **r
*; *+** t*at,
*} *t*bitily- t*st.
*] Pr..:*p t*,*1.
e*i F*r:r*r t*st.
el Fc*m ie*t peif*rm*fice ani i.an]g
3$ **lF*'Fl*&?l**lJ* **a4*HT* E=*ur*g* FasFrr vsnI**R
Ater ea+rplst cn cf crcer ihe'cl!r'r-'rc irformat:or: ,' **eumerls shsll r.e suppf;ed by vei:dori. ,r+s buih drawing cf iende r +"6* us :uirrJ'r?u cr !*ei
::
::,
1::
:::
::
:::
..
.:::
t
::::
:::::
Ei
::.,
:ta
.5
F:3 IO,LF I FIR E DTE, / vE-Ir I Ws / NTP{-{,$)J 0. 1 1 to 1 7:n
,i As br,;itl dralr-ing ()l tafik
ii1. Fl+*; dia$r,a{"r,+{ thc appiian*r
i+ A.s buili irewrng lor rnstatratron c{ iTC Ln !
v. Drawing lor Fo-am-cunr-!?ater Morlitol
vr L:n* diagram fs,r ei**tyicel *i1q*its
vi Dr"a',vrno 8 data for Fcanr Inducl:cn Deu;ce.
,;;;1 {.r*S* eiti*n $,A.1#ifig6 Chafe,:t*ai$1$ {rr.i**,,4't]d slhE. CSlaiis fcr water pJft'rp ar'I Iis 
'l
Fr+;ci 3i'r rr! SyS:enl
ix A+i,:r.:*3*et:+rr,& lasting l'**oadt ic:; !6.1k5, ptrill$:S, PTC,= *:lir';g. '-*'*'1',;ts li1:*xl'i$' *'"{
x Tnree getS :i cperatrng arfl ttl5trt,,:llon ,llanti&l
36 EENERAL pq0tTlOIS= rp:R TECHtllp+ryHlF-H cF..i:.n ci lraref Bi-11g, 3 7::; ...:'i
' pa!'t!es to attach LF & Hp purntj data 9i]eels mase drru EEi{'v"
t;;j:JJ[?iXi'r rn*,.., showrng ihe a*ar!.Eerner,r or Fro un,r {or 1si;ns Poiv*' *';a i',,i
enstne o| chassrs to water PUmP
I?ffi.Je,,g".1:al.si.i}i.i.!:,].ki..:.,!af5l.]ip5id.prr!+rrr:.alcei.iJ'-l.:i*]i:
Un,rl llrr a **.,** +iii'fi;i"n= ii." ii* *uru"*r-i"*Fi!r *i *t =6h:{i* }=le+ts :4 3"r:! ir:}i :'i::'
.*+trilis'i by th* verdsr's t*Fres*!1tEtiu" nt J;I'"ioti il ff* erra {43!' ls '**nsg*i?etr:
18 .QUAI-iFICATiOI{..CFITERI*: rw,se:he o:iet +."'r :'u
Th* bidd*r *hould pro'rrffEfffinE detarls st*r"r*'*t'rih qiJclal}sr ;' +tl:!€
't=c r':t*c ''dr*a:]** 
{il*++it,*id*a*ti i**empi*t* arc1l_ r€€r. a*ih 3!*e i:n;
i, fjau a*a*. shell sr.ibi'ril th* iay**t +l *ppllan*e ;-.rr* .€s, <xtin**!.-€iE
't*.kers, trrnlp p*n*l do.;;';#;;;' uii"t gallows' 1'iatet e*d i+a*t tartx '
frre be I fl3sr'*r 3rJ a l:Shis ...3n i--.nii r.:y | -
i Th* bi*{er =lr}tl s$*t"}lil t*e di++*ing ind:+atin$ ih* fab.rcaiic* t*{ali5 $J tc;*:*r' l+arx {a:ri"' f::[* i':-'i
csli*€:ti'3'n. prr*u pt'**i +ic ':**r:n3 3!'s!ery'; *|*il:Jttt* *i*ic *i+l'1:1lli*tl+:* '*l=r:ii:='3r ;'uirlfi3 ':''-:
s*a'e pan'5 
a r*=*$r:;*rl *'qa*tl*1'l9n **c pLr:l:,,q :-:':t;::'i;'J'"' ''::i
3 A:prured copv of punrp workrng detarrs fr311
l*.t-n"iost iiansier Farl culars f:oi'r the desrgner
*n*unO ;16":3rtl!r-!'i**3:6 c*a'i! ** * J'r: ille* 3 l'i - I
4, Teihrica,l litsialtlre p*rtai*i::g t'*' trri'"n*r' PT*'
'+rlh o'd 
lac"':-'' 't':n cetS s th'i: ?e t j:alrti?'l
5 Ti:e eidd*r' ;h*'tlld h*!t* *$tablish*'tr iab::i**ttctl
6$uonrrttnereferencellstofcUslgnrerlpr*ierasi.,,Go':Esta:,.shreni'"jniiei:1e:S:il{i|:;:-|:'J..
Sugpt,ed I -.-^r ^- ^r !r
?.J*t*1h#s$tag*:in*pe#iensh3'lbe?u:::dbytn*'*t:''et*nt;lrves*f?'ta-:3er:r*trtan'r?;5r"rli":'r
;;r;";'}il.; rhe mr:ti:*llv e*c't'enient da!e5
f9*j***Es.ss*IF€.**ehF*arrrF;r*;*Fder{Cc.r':br[*il}}ali*cf'*ci.*e:j.,'jt:.l1i.;':.:.i:i-;
ts*.es**ri*s $?e. & **r,r?,*1*iir*#1*u.*9113li.rut*r u* th*.lls$$i* &',.r th* *':{e=:*i1i:'*: ii':::' :::r
suita*ty iixed in Fc*jt$;j;;;;ii-*; |*pl i* :*ii*ui so a&*r suitabl€ i*{8:r3':'ai *1 tr1* !*li:'j:
=t*cuiialrr*irgs 
*rall*Jt;*;;;#a *?ur*l'ou]*i';our: ** s*tr*le' iti rai:: tvr:* '1 +:: t:::':':i.:i
shafi be lg 166r'ked \iliI'\{, riv
\il*
i'ir.,.,,!
!/ :l
,:!,
5
s.r{ I
E:3?S*5 1 f IEE DTE, lVfTTllr/5 INTFC f 5) I * I I 3S X ?:&
tt*m& 'aln, ttnqtt, l.rr
l. i f*se.! -l.i
1
;--*+rser -*:errsiryle{{=r*l }-=l=r1l$+l!*ll:tg_E" iFl:ii_
l*t:,Sii'] ll*:41=i f:tl** y;:th I4* r::i* Su*ti*r:
th* **upl!*g* *h.**ld =*:
fl{ ^^*
A-ld .+lli* DC SFe-ated 'Grar:d r4ak*' blil.ker ';!ht hsr i3i" length) *rth P .c.
Sys:€n', fice H,3o:sr !riih r.Lil,f* tcr*S Str,:*ie bg *rt,ridec cn tCp:f ttre
vehiele !oJ:t1 flrm s"tppoil a1C ftSSgnrll} Shall f,e i:ovettd rvrlh S S grill
,lqselgtr shg!:E_gEirab e fi*,:r f:.,:er_,r.q!!l - 1 _tr{***a}ly *f*.=tsi Fir* **ll il5* *"'xi Jitred *n rc+l *f c*br-.
I i J r'.{a
, i qi":rnn ia!,€rcir, ; -;;;;;*t t!-B # 
-, * - Jr}-r€r co.-n*eief i:...............:.,it r:.,... ,.-..,-
i i j *A;€lp+te=s**t ]i*ni :tj!l*qpl=t *! *q itt qi;terr_'qti "--* _
lil_:E=rstr+;=.=qnqry er*=aFirt,$LJ? *ntr'r**'d:----i *"r+::i r;l*;:*. j t{*r,rd e*.ir*tl*,ri n*'1-asprr*t,ng aqua r+,;,,f.:a,* it;tt -aattts **ytr:t s,itt;j*tl--:*1E;t- '
lselc:l-r!-lq.|e:g silp - - ' :r -r i-- : 
,
t0 I Jur,.o: ,#ater C,-rrtarris ,S S r
. ,,--_ :a::'- !: :tr
11lr*rt*3:*bail*rgGF.*rai**Fx*i:*a*dresEe.-l
I surlable capac,ty
C,:inpr*ssee a'r *re atr,ig S*i L;S^.i .rrs,!ht ie8a, ,,,tres .€ia:.rry i*1,. [2 s*r + :
tac.nlarr€* Srea:hrng set il,{OC;l :yirnjer Car*,:r: f,sriFosr:e fibrel tliih *i:ra rcs sFare 
I
*ti%a',a;i i L vE*i llu*rirj *'lrujt rx :},?:iJ1; j€+nalt{ *tittvely**+* * !}J,lll- c?3 I?:tre ll:
ibeeirrg lSl 1,4€rk on each efi!:h dr,ly blni r"riih lSl marked couptrng 22 E
-- -: fqqe_qqup t.|s lrsltJ_l_ti{,
Ji : -S1:elir* Sl:*i*sr -l_4I xr:: si:=* t;:itl: r.:XV i ioc-; .r**'+e *.* as p*i lS 9C7 jt nos
1*. ,i **etr,*.* '*Jr**li:e*, l**!* i*i+*nti*nil * r.r.,;v*ts*L: f,fi 14* mm suc:i*n
rnSE is F*r l$-.*f+3
ii'i n*r
?*" fl? *ne
. -:.L
at .#irnr,:g 
r$ *. ir 3* =irs 1*n*it'1 '"sitn ] r :n4€
*r:* $,1*t*: *:*i* *,*i i*ri:*!e ;**cll**s
iill mafH*.:
l5: *3* ?gp*
?hc **=* ar:*
NOTE": Any otiriiaceessory r.rct inc!uded-;bove , wfr;e f=,r:ale ia* applia**e n:*re ct{i*ieEt &
i i{*telelte&q i*.#eg;ryg:ltl te be i**talled *n the l*ax ljre ?**der
3*.* b: sf&**s e*-.*-EE€**1ES ?* €8 $uFf ilE* ysiril 
=,**lL.ft** TEi*FE*
u ' tlif
; rril* **v*rs
M
r*ff<
s,
3 *t str€r*s irr *B:*,nd*d b*1=,+;.
i** ea,*a*il,j
3. &il t**l* r**r:i.*d f*r *,*r*:al r+*ii:r* *:*ini*rr**** *i **s*iiJ'*if. tin*iude* :r.l,1* *ta*d*rd l**l f<it af *ha*ai*.
*5 **i
rgr i5s glnrgrgC suet or hlee !i i40 -nn-, :'1*5.
':i?':-* *1*
Lrol-J $er
tl* *=?i I
i=-?*4-19*4], L*,rg+ &c* ii$ 4?78], Fick a-xe liS :ii5:f ire r+oarie lan are lS 365C $rade, Sh*'riel
Gi *a*i:
*.:*I*L$ f-Fl*H**?E.f YEEY.f.lar.SJ HTrC {S}l*3j3,$**:*
Jt *{*s
l* l!**
l* N**
i tfr, ...,..Ir.s=ffi:*:ll3.atas€sr qs-hqaq
i liai* ***;r*ii** *i*xser branch lcr f,3 mnr sie* h+,:* c*rJ*li*c
Sr, H*, B*a*ripti*r: *1y.
J *ilS*al=*,1 '*'Fi*g c*rp?*l* sel .31 S*:
I Glydrir'g i2 trcs
3 'Lj'Gaal C2 t{*s.
€ f.ia.p,hr*g*m f*r **v*r Pl=t* ft N:**.
5 *isc**qa S*al 02 N+s.
* k:t*t Se*l *? F{+*.
? Pistan Rrng 02 Nos
* ltt****::i*al **al &*ser*btv !'i $rt
* Eush fci ounrp shai: 1 l'Ic
t* Ecal 1'1ras*er 3ls*,k *sp Cl Ns
1a S**li*g ftl:bbai f*r Fla* G2 N+s.
1: 1**t**ian**:;s Couplir:g *i:bb*r B2 N+s.
a3 **al ?vla*?:*r ?**:i*g !1s|,6 ** .$*s.
14 *q$pl*l* **aring **t : i€t
15 Cy, *roire assemilly 2 sels
i1
*r***'r fi+* l:*i'g*r**, ijG =*?: i
Eta**- *i*.e r*'"'*]',r'i*a 5*a* -E fra1,i1 Ul I tu=
Br*n*l': pip* l':*** +**lr*l iL***** T L:; NC-C
L.*t+,*rirrg li** * r*p* L{anila 51 rnm , 4L1 fi lcng **vi*g I *r:S= splieed ir: & : *'1 **a.
*'i **d :*it* * firfil:i':* I'J*=* {** : **4} i
,1fi : t*** iln* * f*** ry:a*ii* 5'tr r:'r*"' rirc:-rxi*re*;a :c 3'] xF l*** {13 1*-341 ,t "."""""-." t:! -s!.-*---i
1* , L*w pr***r.lrs SiJi*=*r *r**+h{t*..J *pplieai+r *rerc,ti n{ *-*:-r4 itJ>
!:* r **t:*i-i-**] i$rte***g.s*:leri
21 1 3*it {utrier:4= 3. 3S" * T**cria ,ra;{e
___4* - I?:. i ,#***e* H**k **rv * Tapai'ia r:a<*
*FAR€ reEY* L:5T r*n ffi&iliT*t*&a'{fE *r THE FIRE TrN*€*
H{GH"LSW PRESSURg FIRE PUIUP
LIST OF SPAN€S FOR I*IGi{ LOW PRESSURE FIftE PUMP FOR FIVE YEARS
:1
:,:
aJ H**e ***ds**s rubb*r'a*d {$*e lS 581:iP*.t tl}
:rl H.ise::la*p$ iSee lS 5612r Part ll
r': !*i:ra+ qli*:':r
8. *-q ful*ka divi*i*g i:r***i:i** **nicr*:ir:* t* l€
la
13 A*+pt*r= .=* ;:,-d*r :
i. i*.r 1**-"rx: *iJ*ti** {err':aJ* *r.re'".", *c.upli*g * *3 n:x rc*i* ll:*1*-t*re*ii*
ii, *.=**i* fes:al* i*sa*r:la*ecr= Fatler'':
iii llr:r litl+e r-=l* i::*1.**1=*.ar ln n::iiFr.t
t*,* n^*
{ }'i *t<
*? **.:q
u r tlLa
A1 **t
M
:.:::..::.a....:.:,:::t:t:):.::::..:.:::::j::!1=.,...:..::::.::.:::.:::La:::-:::a:.::.,:..
,*J tv*'
'S ,s- .'>.-.I*r"
:, e*/-ai'+o ,Y
.\
tft'ear rlngs fr*n't an' rear lsel
fOWEH IAXE GTF
L|ST C,F Sr*AeS F** F,T'0' fOH flvf Y€ARS
\
tt{,ry
l+
G
*
ANNEXURE-A   
  
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR WATER 'TENDER TYPE- X IS: 6067-1983  
 
1.  SCOPE   
                      The scope includes fabricatio n and supply of Water tender with BS6 Cowl chassis  for fire 
brigade use fully built with all accessories mentioned in Appendix 'A', other fittings and accessories as 
per specification. The supply shall be with guarant ee period of 18 months for material, accessories & 
workmanship for smooth functioning of the vehicle from the date of delivery to the department subject 
to acceptance by the user department. The detailed drawing of vehicle shall have to be submitted for 
approval (in 3 copies) within 30 days of placing of  order. The vehicle shall be built conforming to IS : 
6067-1983. The tendered shall enclose performance r eports of the fire tender supplied by them from 
public sector undertakings.   
  
2.0  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS      
2.1   The appliance shall be designed to carry the equipm ent listed in Appendix “A”. The equipment 
shall be arranged on a manner so as to allow the cr ew members to get ready in vehicle itself on the 
TATA Motors / Ashok Leyland / Eicher or equivalent ( similar) BS6 Cowl Chassis, ( Minimum 16 
tonne GVW and if not available in 16 Tonne GVW the same shall be selected in next higher 
Tonnage GVW).   
2.2  No part of the body shall reduce the ground cl earance less than 260 mm. Overall width shall not b e   
more than 2500 mm and height shall not be more than 3300 mm from the ground level.  
2.3  Due consideration in designing the appliance be given to the fact that the appliance may be requi red to 
operate on rough terrain also. The appliance shall also be capable of being started from rest up a 
gradient of 1 in 4 when laden.   
2.4  All items, fittings and components given in Ap pendix 'A' shall be designed, fabricated, assembled  and 
treated in accordance with the relevant standards p ublished by BIS. In case where relevant BIS 
specification is not suitable, the equipment shall confirm to generally accepted codes and practice or  
relevant specification of the “Country of origin of the equipment”.   
2.5  The appliance shall carry 6,000 litres of wate r, a centrifugal pump capable of delivering not les s than 
3200 litres of water per minute at 0.7 MN/m2 and other accessories.   
2.6   A hose reel shall be provided on the appliance.   
2.7  The appliance shall be capable of performing all normal fire fighting operations in various forms under 
requiring water pressure.   
2.8  The appliance shall be designed to be as compa ct as possible compactable with ease of accessibili ty to 
all parts.   
2.9   Lever type valve controls shall be used.   
2.10 The water tender shall be fabricated in a manner so as to conform to the following characteristics.  
a)  Gross vehicle mass     : Not less than 15 tones inc luding crew, water and equipment. 
b)  Maximum speed on level road   : 75 km/h. (Fully lad en)   
c)  Acceleration from a standing start 
through the gears (Fully laden)   :  50 km/h in 55 seconds.   
d)  The appliance shall be capable of being started from rest on a gradient of 1 to 4.   
e)  When travelling at 45 km/h on a level, dry surface road, the foot brake shall be capable of stopping 
the vehicle within a distance of 15m from the point  at which the brake is applied. The hand brake 
shall be capable of holding the fully laden applian ce on a dry surface gradient of 1 in 4 when in 
neutral gear.   
f)  The appliance shall have the following overall dimensions:   
  Wheel base    : Not more than 5m   
  Turning circle (dia.)  : Not more than 20m   
  Road clearance   : Not less than 26cm  
  Overall width    : Not more than 2.50m  
 
 
 
 





g) Wind screen wipers
h) Ti:otrs
in any other prondnent position in driving compartrnent
0n botil sides of the glass
All toois required for normal routine maintenance of
the appiiance and wtrich are not included in the kit for
ihe chassis.
i) Siren - Battery operated
j) Search light - Adjustabtre to glve flood or b,eam iight, mounted in a
convenient position but capable of being readily ilisconnected and rnounted on a tripod away from
the appliance complete with tripod and with not less t}:an 30 m of TRS cable on a reel rnounted on
the apptriance.
k) Spot light
I) Inspection lamp
Adjustabie, mounted in a convenient p*sition on the rear
side r:f the driving compartmsnl.
Frotected type on wander lead rvifh plug. .4 socket shal] be
provided in the controtr panei in the driver's cab for
plugging in the lamp.
Two of combinecj stop and tai1.m)
n)
o)
12
Tail iamps
Rear reflecrors
-C1b.in1truT**lPT:1".:"9.1":I-::1lg.}-L@
VHF RADIO TELEPHONE: - Provision to install Standard VHF Radio Telephone ro be
provided by Fire Tender manufacturer. However VHF Radio telephone is not in the scope of agency.
l3 AIEfIELD$ESTRTJCTXON-MARKINC LIGI{TS :- Two such lights shall be mounted. Out of
these. one shall be I front and the other at the rear. When switched 'ON' these Iights shall be visible tr:om all
angles, in the air and from a distance of 6m from the appiiance on the ground. Revolving beacon ray t1.pe of
iights shali be preferred.
14.. F{JS-f:XE 4.SQBESS SY$EE&{:-A baitery operateel slistem with mike in driver's cab and speaker
in the top of tlre vehictre sl"rall be provided"
15. MA&KIN6
Each appliance shall tre clearly and permanently marked with the following information;
a) Mmufactures narne and tradernark.
b) Year of manuf,acture
c) Capacity of the pump in lir/min and warer tank in litres.
d) Emboss the name and embiem of both SSTPS,t{TPC and CISF on either side of the
vehicle"
iLA{ $AE-i:-iirt=;tt
CHNTRAL {NMUSTRI&I. sEC{JRiTY FCIR,CE
{FrRfi w$ruc}
SSTp$/NTpe SipAT EELASpLim {€C} 495s$s

















