 
                NTPC Ltd 
        USSC, VDC-Raipur 
Vendor Enlistment for O&M works package   on Pan NTPC basis 
 CEG No. BMD-28 
1 Brief description of CEG “ESP Overhauling & its associated Auxiliaries” 
2 Responsibility Centre VDC, USSC-Raipur 
3 Brief scope of work  
A.  Maintenance/ Overhauling of ESP 
1. Installation of required scaffolding, platforms and approaches 
including safety arrangement for execution of the insulation work at 
height. 
2. Water Washing of ESP Internals  
3. Inspection &Rectification of Field:  
i.  Checking of Suspension frame, I-Beam and Transverse Roof 
Beam.  
ii.  Checking of Bearings, Shafts, Pin Wheels, Inner, Outer Arms of 
Rapping Systems. 
iii.  Checking of Straightness of Collecting Electrodes, Missing U – 
Guides and Hook. Straightness of bent portion in Collecting 
Plates by heating and fixing of additional U – Guides. 
iv.  Checking of looseness of Emitting Electrodes. Replacement of 
Snapped / Loose Emitting Electrodes. 
v. Damaged Manholes are to be repaired &loose packing rope to 
be replaced (Including Painting of all the Manholes.) 
vi. Checking of Shock Bar Guides, Shock Bars, and Shock Pads & 
Shock Bar Angle. If Shock Bars are jammed in Shock Bar 
Angle, the same is to be made free by cutting the angle groove. 
vii. Damaged Shock Pads are to be build up as original by welding 
/grinding or to be replaced with new.  
4. Replacement of All Damaged Sleeve Bearing  
5. Replacement of Inner / Outer Arm Assembly  
6. Replacement & Alignment of Bent / Worn Out Shaft  
7. Replacement of Support / Shaft Insulator  
8. Overhauling of Gear Boxes  
9. Repair of Hopper Wall 
10. Repairing of GD Screen/ G. D. Test 
 B. Shifting of material, erection of approach platform(s), removal of   
insulation & other related jobs as per site requirement  
C. Preventive maintenance / break down maintenance of ESP and its   
     associated auxiliaries. 
D. Fixing of old/New GI/ Al cladding sheet in Duct/Piping/ Auxiliary    
     equipment’s of ESP area & proper disposal of scrap materials. 
E. Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be 
given in Tender documents. 
 
4 
Technical Qualifying 
Requirements 
The applicant should have executed Erection/ Overhauling 
/Mechanical Maintenance job of ESP in Unit size of 200 MW or 
above in a Thermal Power Plant during the last five years from 
the date of application. 
Document to be submitted by 
Vendor in support  of meeting 
QR 
 Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final Deviation 
Statement.  
                NTPC Ltd 
        USSC, VDC-Raipur 
Vendor Enlistment for O&M works package   on Pan NTPC basis 
 CEG No. BMD-28 
5 Additional Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents  are required to 
be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar 
work during previous five years from the date of  application and 
Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill from the concerned client 
in support of successful execution of supply against each of the 
POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for  the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date 
of application. In case the audited documents are  not ready / 
available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered 
accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate; if applicable. 
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to  submit. List of all required Tools & Plants with 
populations available with the applicant. 
6 Notes Similar work means:  “Erection/ Overhauling / Mechanical 
Maintenance job of ESP and/or its auxiliaries in Unit size of 200 MW 
or above in a Thermal Power Plant during the last five years from the 
date of application.” 
Note: 
In case of any composite PO which includes mechanical 
maintenance/erection of ESP in addition to other mechanical 
maintenance /erection jobs in thermal power plant of unit size 200MW 
or above, the overall executed value of the PO shall be considered as 
executed value for calculation of EC.  
 
 
 