 
NTPC LTD 
VEC, RAIPUR 
1 CEG No. MP-02 & MP-03 
2 
Brief description 
of CEG 
MP-02: Packages having scope of works of 
deployment of manpower (which also includes 
deployment of ‘Specialized/ expert manpower’  as 
defined at ‘1A’ and ‘1B’ below) for assistance in 
NTPC Stations/Projects/Sites/ Offices 
 
MP-03: Packages having scope of works of 
deployment of manpower  (which only includes 
deployment of manpower as defined at ‘2A’ and ‘2B’ 
below) and contracts pertaining to House-keeping/ 
Sanitation/ Area Cleaning/ Grass cutting/ Area 
Upkeeping/ Drain cleaning/ Pit Cleaning  at NTPC 
Stations/Projects/Sites/ Offices 
3 
Responsibility 
Centre 
VEC 
4 
Enlistment 
Category 
From Rs. 20 Lakhs. – Rs. 4.0 Crs. 
5 Brief scope of 
work 
 
Note: The detail 
scope of work & 
other Terms & 
conditions would be 
specified separately 
in the Tender 
1.0 MP-02 (Rs. 20 Lacs upto Rs. 4 Crs.) 
 
Packages having scope of works of deployment of 
manpower (which also includes deployment of 
‘Specialized/ expert manpower’ as defined at ‘1A’ and 
‘1B’ below) for assistance in NTPC 
Stations/Projects/Sites/ Offices.  
 
against the specific 
requirements 
1A. Deployment of ‘Highly Skilled’/’or Higher category’ 
(having wage higher than HSW) in at least one or 
more of the following Areas:  
 
 Manpower for Supervision/ Operation/ 
Commissioning/Erection/Maintenance related activities. 
 Manpower for Supervision/ Monitoring of R&R and 
CSR activities. 
 Manpower for CW treatment/ Chemical Handling/ 
Sampling and testing in Coal sampling/ Chemistry lab 
 Engagement of Legal assistant/ Lawyers. 
 Engagement of Ex-PSU/ Ex- Govt. staff from 
Supervisory/ executive/ Officer cadre 
 Engagement of Draftsmen. 
 Engagement of IT professionals. 
 Engagement of Engineers having degree in 
Engineering. 
 Deployment of technical staff/ lab technicians in FQA. 
 
1B. Deployment of Specialized manpower in one or more 
of the following areas irrespective of the category: 
 
 Safety Stewards/ Safety Supervisors/Safety 
Engineer/Safety Auditor. 
 Paramedical Staff/ Doctors/ Technicians related to 
Health Services.  
 Loco-pilot/ Assistant loco-pilots/ retired Railway staff/ 
Station Master/ Shunt men/ Pointsmen deployed in 
Merry Go Round (MGR)/ Railway System. 
 Drivers/ Operators for Dozer, Payloader, Hydra, JCB, 
Crane, EOT, Excavators, Manlifts 
 
 
Note : Applicability of Manpower Enlistment (MP-02) w.r.t 
type of proposals (Manpower deployment/ Job contracts/ 
Mixed proposals)  
 
 
 
S 
No 
Type of contract Applicability of MP-02 
a 
Exclusive Manpower 
deployment contracts  
Applicable when UoM in 
proposal is Man- days 
(MD)/ Man-months (MME) 
only) 
b Job contracts 
Not applicable  for any 
type of Job contract 
c 
For Mixed proposals 
having manpower 
deployment (with 
UoM as MD/MME) as 
well as some portion 
as Job Contract 
Applicable only when 
estimate of line items 
having manpower 
deployment contributes 
more than 95% of total 
Estimate. 
 
 
 
2.0 MP-03 (Rs. 20 Lacs upto Rs. 4 Crs )  
 
Packages having scope of works of deployment of 
manpower (which only includes deployment of manpower 
as defined at ‘2A’ and ‘2B’ below) and job contracts such 
as House-keeping/ Sanitation/ Area Cleaning/ Grass 
cutting/ Area Upkeeping/ Drain cleaning/ Pit Cleaning  
at NTPC Stations/Projects/Sites/ Offices 
 
2A. Deployment of Unskilled/ Semi- skilled/ Skilled 
manpower for assistance in various areas (except 
Specialized manpower mentioned at ‘1B’ above)  
 
2B. Deployment of *HSW manpower  for assistance in 
following areas of various NTPC Stations/Projects/Sites/ 
Offices: 
  
 Manpower for office assistance including attendants, 
data entry operators and manpower required by 
various departments of NTPC. 
 Drivers and helpers for operation of various 
equipment, HMV and other vehicles excluding Dozer, 
Payloader, Hydra, JCB, Crane, EOT, Excavators, 
Manlifts. 
 Manpower for housekeeping & cleaning in plant, 
township, hospital etc. 
 Manpower in MGR (except specialized manpower 
mentioned in ‘1A’ & ‘1B’ above) 
 Manpower for co-ordination/ liasioning works. 
 Manpower for maintenance of records 
 Engagement of secretarial assistance. 
 
Note : *-Applicability of Manpower Enlistment (MP- 03) 
w.r.t type of proposals (Manpower deployment/ Job 
contracts/ Mixed proposals)  
 
S 
No 
Type of contract Applicability 
a 
Exclusive Manpower 
deployment 
contracts  
Applicable when UoM in 
proposal is Man-days (MD)/ 
Man-months (MME) only) 
b 
Job Contracts 
 
(i) Applicable for Job 
contracts for Area 
Cleaning/ House- keeping/ 
Sanitation/ Grass cutting/ 
Area Upkeeping/ Drain 
cleaning/ Pit Cleaning. 
(ii) Not Applicable For any 
other type of Job contracts 
c 
For Mixed proposals 
having manpower 
deployment (with 
UoM as MD/MME) 
as well as some 
portion as Job 
Contract other than  
mentioned in b(i)  
above. 
Applicable only when 
estimate of line items 
having manpower 
deployment contributes 
more than 95% of total 
Estimate. 
 
 
 
6.  Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
 6.1 Technical Criteria for Qualification under MP-02 
 
 6.1.1 The applicant should have executed contract(s) for 
‘Deployment of Manpower’ in preceding five (5) years 
from the last date of submission of application. 
 
AND 
 
6.1.2 The applicant should have executed contract(s) for 
deployment of ‘Specialized Manpower’, with executed 
value of deployment of ‘Specialized Manpower’ work not 
less than Rs. 16 Lacs  in a single (1) contract in the 
preceding Five (5) years from the last date of submission 
of application. 
 
 Notes for 6.1:  
(i) For 6.1.1, Reference Work Order(s) for deployment of 
any type of manpower i.e. Unskilled/ Semi-skilled/ 
Skilled / Highly Skilled or Higher category can be 
submitted. Reference work order(s) submitted by 
applicant may also include deployment of Specialized 
Manpower. 
(ii) For the purpose of qualification under 6.1.1 above, 
Reference work orders of Job Contract for Area 
Cleaning/ House- keeping/ Sanitation/ Grass cutting/ 
Area Upkeeping/ Drain cleaning/ Pit Cleaning shall also 
be considered.  
 (iii) Applicant can submit same or different reference 
works in support of their claim to comply qualification 
criteria 6.1.1 & 6.1.2 
(iv) ‘Specialized Manpower’ (as mentioned in 6.1.2 above) 
shall mean deployment under following: 
 
A. Deployment of ‘ Highly Skilled’/’or Higher category’ 
(having wage higher than HSW) in at least one or more 
of the following Areas:  
 
 Manpower for Supervision/ Operation/ 
Commissioning/Erection/Maintenance related activities 
in any industry/ Plant. 
 Manpower for Supervision/ Monitoring of R&R and 
CSR activities. 
 Manpower for CW treatment/ Chemical Handling/ 
Sampling and testing in Coal sampling/ Chemistry lab. 
 Engagement of Legal assistant/ Lawyers. 
 Engagement of Ex-PSU/ Ex- Govt. staff from 
Supervisory/ executive/ Officer cadre 
 Engagement of Draftsmen. 
 Engagement of IT professionals. 
 Engagement of Engineers having degree in 
Engineering. 
 Deployment of technical staff/ lab technicians in 
Quality department 
 Engagement of Teachers/ Academic Faculty/ 
Consultants. 
 
B. Deployment of following specialized manpower in one 
or more of the following areas irrespective of the category: 
 Safety Stewards/ Safety Supervisors/Safety 
Engineer/Safety Auditor. 
 Paramedical Staff/ Doctors/ Technicians related to 
Health Services.  
 Loco-pilot/ Assistant loco-pilots/ retired Railway staff/ 
Station Master/ Shunt men/ Pointsmen deployed in 
Merry Go Round (MGR)/ Railway System. 
 Drivers/ Operators for Dozer, Payloader, Hydra, JCB, 
Crane, EOT, Excavators, Manlifts 
  
 6.2 Technical Criteria for Qualification under MP-03 
 
6.2.1 The applicant should have executed contract(s) for 
‘Deployment of Manpower’ in preceding Five (5) years 
from the last date of submission of application. 
 
Notes for 6.2:  
(i) Reference Work Order(s) for deployment of any type 
of manpower i.e. Unskilled/ Semi- skilled/ Skilled / 
Highly Skilled or Higher category can be submitted. 
Reference work order(s) submitted by applicant may 
also include deployment of Specialized Manpower. 
(ii) For the purpose of qualification, Reference work orders 
of Job Contract for Area Cleaning/ House- keeping/ 
Sanitation/ Grass cutting/ Area Upkeeping/ Drain 
cleaning/ Pit Cleaning shall also be considered.  
 
Common Notes for 6.1 & 6.2 above: 
(i) Applicants meeting Criteria 6.1 above, shall be Enlisted 
for MP-02 & MP-03 both with same Execution Capability 
(EC) & AATO. 
 
(ii) Applicants meeting criteria 6.2 only, shall be enlisted 
for MP-03 only. 
 
(iii) For arriving at the ‘executed value’, basic amount only 
shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of 
taxes, applicant should provide the break- up of basic 
value and taxes.  
 
(iv) The executed value of only those BOQ Items shall 
be considered which are pertaining exclusively to 
“Deployment of manpower”. 
 
(v) The word “Executed” means the applicant should have 
achieved the criteria specified in the qualifying 
requirements within the preceding Five (5) year period 
even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is 
not completed/ closed. 
 
7. Financial Qualifying 
Requirement 
7.1 The average annual turnover of the Applicant, in the 
preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of 
submission of application, shall not be less than Rs. 20 
Lakhs (Rupees Twenty Lakhs only).  
 
7.2 In case the Applicant does not satisfy the financial 
criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 7 .1 above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at Cl. No. 7.1 above, provided that 
the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last 
day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid- up share capital of the Holding 
Company. In such an event, the Applicant would be 
required to furnish along with its Application, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the 
Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the 
contract by the Applicant in case of award. 
 
7.3 In case the Applicant is not able to furnish its audited 
financial statements on stand-alone entity basis , the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Applicant can be considered acceptable provided the 
Applicant further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification: 
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the Applicant along with copies of the 
audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company. 
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding 
Company, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated 
Annual Financial Statements of the Holding Company 
 
7.4 In cases where audited results for the last financial 
year as on the date of submission of application opening 
are not available , the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant  shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Applicant is not able to submit the 
certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
its financial parameters, the audited results for the three 
(03) consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be 
required from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding document stating that the financial results of 
the company are under audit as on the date of 
submission of application and the certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
 
7.5 Notes for Clause 7.0 above: 
 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share 
capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance 
of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses 
to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be 
reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at 
annual turnover figures. 
 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall 
have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies 
Act of India 
 
8 Execution Capability 
Criteria for 
Enlistment 
 
The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability 
(EC) and Average Annual Turnover (AATO)  of Enlisted 
Vendors shall be Rs.20,00,000 (Rs. Twenty Lakhs 0nly). 
 
If any applicant does not submit the required documents 
so that their Execution Capability/ AATO equals or exceeds 
20,00,000 (Rs. Twenty Lakhs Only), such applicant shall 
not be considered for enlistment even if they meet the 
qualifying Requirement (QR) of subject Enlistment. 
 
Execution Capability of the vendor to execute similar work 
shall be calculated based on the values of three POs of 
highest execution value submitted by vendor as defined in 
the following table with an example: 
 
Capability of 
execution of 
similar work as 
per PO values  
PO-1 PO-2 PO-3 
PO values  70 60 55 
Execution 
Capability as per 
One/two/three 
POs  
70x1.25=87.5 
(E.C. up to 
87.5 L) 
60x2=120 
(E.C. up 
to 120 L) 
55x2.5=137.5 
(E.C. up to 
137.5 L) 
Execution 
capability of the 
vendor to execute 
similar work  
137.5 
(Highest of 87.5, 120 and 137.5) 
 
Vendor is capable to execute work up to 
cost estimate 137.5 L 
i.e. eligibility limit for enlistment up to 
cost estimate 137.5 L  
 
Upon completion of the enlistment process, the enlisted 
vendor(s) shall be considered for execution of the value 
of work from Rs. 20 Lacs. to 4 Crs under a future tender 
as per their qualification established during the process 
of enlistment. 
 
Notes for Execution capability MP-02: 
1. For calculating the execution capability, the ‘Executed 
Value’ of only those BOQ Items shall be considered 
which are pertaining exclusively to “Deployment of 
manpower” meeting the requirement of 6.1 or 6.2 or 
both 6.1 & 6.2. 
2. For Calculating execution capability, work orders of 
Job Contract for Area Cleaning/ House-keeping/ 
Sanitation/ Grass cutting/ Area Upkeeping/ Drain 
cleaning/ Pit Cleaning shall also be considered 
irrespective of Unit of Measurement 
3. The word “Executed” means the applicant should have 
achieved the criteria specified in the qualifying 
requirements within the preceding Five (5) year period 
even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is 
not completed/ closed.   
4. ‘Executed Value’ means basic value (excluding taxes). 
 
Notes for Execution capability MP-03: 
1. For calculating the execution capability, the ‘Executed 
Value’ of only those BOQ Items shall be considered 
which are pertaining exclusively to “Deployment of 
manpower”. 
2. For Calculating execution capability, work orders of 
Job Contract for Area Cleaning/ House-keeping/ 
Sanitation/ Grass cutting/ Area Upkeeping/ Drain 
cleaning/ Pit Cleaning shall also be considered 
irrespective of Unit of Measurement. 
3. The word “Executed” means the applicant should have 
achieved the criteria specified in the qualifying 
requirements within the preceding Five (5) year period 
even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is 
not completed/ closed.   
4. ‘Executed Value’ means basic value (excluding taxes). 
9 
Selection of enlisted 
vendors for issuing 
tender enquiry 
For a particular tender, eligible vendors shall be selected 
from the “list of enlisted vendors” considering the 
following as detailed in the enlistment document: 
 
1.Execution capability based on technical criteria.  
2.Average Annual Turnover of three(3) years. 
10 Documents to be 
submitted 
Documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements: Relevant PO copy and Client’s 
Completion Certificate/RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement.  
In addition to the documents required in support of 
meeting Technical Qualifying Requirements as stated 
above, following documents are required to be submitted 
by the Applicants applying for enlistment: 
i. POs with BOQ of the highest Executed Values of 
Manpower Deployment  during previous five years 
from the date of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the 
concerned client in support of successful execution of 
work against each of the POs to be submitted. 
ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss 
statement for the previous three completed financial 
years reckoned from the date of application. In case 
the audited results for the preceding financial year is 
not available, certification of financial statements from 
a practicing-chartered accountant is to be uploaded. 
In case, applicant is not able to submit the certificate 
from practicing chartered accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results of the three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial 
years shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial results 
are under audit as on date of application and 
certificate from the practicing chartered certifying the 
financial parameters are not available. 
iii. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF & 
GST/Service Tax registration certificate.  
iv. PAN, PF and GST registration certificates 
v. Any other documents in addition to the above which 
the applicant wants to submit to get enlisted. 
vi. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during 
evaluation. 
 
 
 