NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No. MMC -01  
2 Brief description of CEG  Mechanical shift maintenance in Main Plant/ Off sites areas of Coal 
based power plant 
3 Responsibility Centre  SRHQ  
4 Brief scope of work  
A. Execution of Shift Mechanical Maintenance jobs roun d the 
clock in main plant and offsite area of power plant   that 
would be required for keeping the plant and allied facilities in 
good operating condition at all times. 
B. Erection & dismantling of approach platforms wherev er 
required.  
C. Shifting of spares/scraps to the identified area. 
D. Detailed Work Scope will be given as per site speci fic 
requirement in Tender documents only. 
5 Technical Qualifying 
Requirements 
The applic ant should have executed Mechanical Maintenance Job / 
Erection of Equipment in Main Plant Area (Boiler/ T urbine) of Coal 
based generating unit of 60 MW or higher during the last five years 
from the date of application 
 
Document to be submitted 
by Vendor in support of 
meeting QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
CEG No. MMC -01  
6 Additional Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of  meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following d ocuments are 
required to be submitted by the Applicants applying  for 
enlistment:- 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values o f 
similar work during previous five years from the da te of 
application and Copy of   Completion Certificate /R A Bill 
from the concerned client in support of execution o f jobs 
against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for 
the previous three completed financial years reckon ed 
from the date of application. In case the audited 
documents are not ready / available, then certified copy by 
a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be  
submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate ;if applicable. 
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate. 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with population s 
available with the applicant. 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
7 Notes  1. Similar work means Mechanical Maintenance Job / Erection of 
Equipment in Main Plant Area (Boiler/ Turbine) of C oal based 
generating unit of 60MW or  higher  during the last  five years 
from the date of application 
2. Credential of Structural Fabrication or only pipe l ine work shall 
not be considered as similar work. 
3. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value i s 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has 
to give break-up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, 
taxes etc. Any separate re-imbursement/ escalation shall also 
not be considered. 