                                                                           NTPC LTD  
                                                                     USSC, VDC-RAIPUR  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No. BMD-33 
2 CEG DESCRIPTION SUPPLY AND APPLICATION OF PAINT ON STRUCTURES, EQUIPMENTS 
& PIPING OF BOILER AND IT’S AUXILIARIES for NTPC Stations.  
3 RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
USSC / VDC 
4 BRIEF SCOPE OF 
WORK 
The scope of work includes application of paint on surfaces of Boiler structure, 
non-insulated piping, Coal Bunker Cylindrical Portion, Milling System, FD/PA Fans & 
up to ID Fan Structure, ESP Structure before Chimney & anywhere on steel surfaces 
in NTPC plant.  
Supply and erection of 'Scaffolding'/ 'Manlift or Boom l ift' will be in the scope  of the 
vendor or as specified in the tender document.  
 
Painting work may be required to carry out up to a height of 100 meter from Ground 
or as specified in the tender document . 
PAINT MATERIALS (in VENDOR’S SCOPE) 
Paint manufacturers shall furnish the characteristics of all paint’s materials on 
printed literature, along with the test certificate for all specified characteristics given 
in this specification. All the paint materials shall be on first quality and conform to 
the following general characteristics as mentioned below . 
Heat resistant Paints must be used for Painting of un-insulated hot structures, like Safety 
Valve Discharge Pipes, Silencers, Vents, mills etc.  
 
Also, Fluorescent paint shall be used in painting of Steel ladders of Boiler Support 
System.  
 
Thinner used for application of EACH paint coat, shall be in scope of agency, for which 
NO EXTRA COST shall be paid. 
Sl No Area 
Descrip
tion 
Initial 
Coat 
Interme
diate 
coat  
Finish 
coat 
Fini
sh 
coat 
Total DFT in 
Microns 
01 Bucksta
y ,Boiler 
support 
structur
e, 
Gallerie
s & 
Stairwa
ys ,inter 
connect
ing 
walkwa
ys 
Suitabl
e primer 
e.g.’ 
ZINC 
SILICA
TE or 
SURFA
CE 
TOLER
ANT 
PRIME
R (01 
coat) 
EPOXY 
based 
pigment
ed paint 
(01 
coat) 
Epoxy 
finish 
(02 
coat) 
AC
RYL
IC 
PU 
PAI
NT 
(01 
coat
) 
250 
microns 
  75 
microns 
75 
microns 
35 
microns 
each 
30 
micr
ons 
250 
microns 
 
Indenter may specify / add tables as per painting system adopted for various structure/ 
equipment / piping.  
 
Painting System  
1. Covering capacity and DFT depends on method of application. Covering capacity 
specified above are theoretical. Allowing the losses during application, minimum 
specified DFT should be maintained.  
2. All primers and finish coats should be cold cured and air drying unless otherwise 
specified. 
3. All paints shall be applied in accordance with manufacturer's instructions for surface 
preparation, intervals, curing and application. The surface preparation, quality and 
workmanship should be ensured.  
4.The colour coding scheme of NTPC shall be followed and the scheme be provided by 
NTPC.  
5.The agency shall guarantee successful performance of painting system for a period 
of Minimum 60 months from the date of completion of the job.  
Surface preparation  
Before taking up the surface preparation work, the extent of work involved & the 
methodology for thorough cleaning of the surface shall be jointly assessed by the 
agency and NTPC. Accordingly, suitable cleaning methods for surface preparation 
based on the surface condition may be carried out by the agency prior to painting. 
AGENCY'S SCOPE  
1. Before start of application of paint, painting methodology/procedure to be finalized 
and approval of EIC to be obtained.  
 
2. Paint materials should be stored at demarcated place in clean, cool and dry condition. 
Fire extinguishers should be available at place of paint storage.  
 
3. Blasting machines, compressors and their accessories, blasting abrasive, power tools, 
scrappers, Gloves, Brushes, wire brushes, emery paper, buffing machines and buffing 
wheels, sandpaper, cotton waste, markin cloth to be arranged by the agency at his own 
cost. For spray-painting, spray nozzles and mixing containers etc. are in agency's scope.  
 
4. For water washing, water tankers, pump, hose, nozzles etc. shall be arranged by the 
agency. Water shall be provided by NTPC to agency free of cost.  
 
5. Dry film thickness meter with valid calibration certificate, Wet film thickness gauges, 
Motorized stirrer for paint mixing , Psychrometer for measurement of RH and all other 
instruments, tools and tackles required for the job and inspection.  
 
6. Agency should estimate the available area and calculate the required quantity of paint 
before mixing the paint.  
 
7. Vendor has to m aintain records for cleaning of surface, OFT checking of old paint 
before applying new paint, OFT checking of every coat. The agency shall maintain 
register on daily basis and should be available at the site for verification.  
 
8. Taking connections from Employer's terminal points (for electricity) to respective work 
locations. Required electrical fixtures, cables, bulbs, flood lights, fittings etc. is in 
agency's scope.  
 
9. Other details of works as per specific station requirement shall be given in Tender 
documents.  
5 TECHNICAL 
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENTS 
The applicant should be a manufacturer of “epoxy / enamel” based paint or its 
authorized applicator and should have executed the work of “supply and 
application of epoxy / enamel paint” on “new/old” Steel surface up to a height 
of minimum 30 meters above ground on any Industrial structures within the 
preceding last five years from the  last date of submission of application.  
DOCUMENT TO 
BE SUBMITTED 
BY VENDOR IN 
SUPPORT OF 
MEETING QR 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements as stated above.  
 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms and conditions, 
BOQ POs (issued within last Five (5) from the last date of submission of application 
in support of award and copy of Client's Completion certificate/RA Bill/ final deviation 
statement from the concerned client /copies of invoice to establish successful 
execution as per QR.  
 
NTPC may ask more documents if felt necessary. 
 
 
 
                                                                         NTPC LTD  
                                                                  USSC, VDC-RAIPUR  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
CEG No. BMD-33 
6 ADDITIONAL 
DOCUMENTS TO BE 
SUBMITTED 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents 
are required to be submitted by the applicants applying for 
enlistment:  
 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
similar work during previous five years from the last date of 
submission of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the 
concerned client in support of successful execution of jobs 
against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for 
the previous three completed financial years reckoned from 
the date of application. In case the audited documents are 
not ready / a vailable, then certified copy by a registered 
practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
 
NTPC may ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all 
documents/ facilities can be verified/ assessed if required. 
7 NOTES 1.Similar work means “The applicant should have supplied and/or 
applied paint on “new/old” steel surface of any Industrial structures for 
a minimum value of Rs. 50 Lakhs in a single PO /award / contract within 
the preceding  last five years from the last date of submission of 
application.”  
 
2.Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including taxes etc.), the applicant has to give 
break-up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes 
etc. Any separate re -imbursement / escalation will not be  
considered. 
 
3. All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VDC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in"  
 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
8 QUALITY PLAN  
(IF APPLICABLE) 
Applicable 
9 CATEGORY OF 
ENLISTMENT 
CATEGORY-1 
 