NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No. EMG-01 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Environment Parameter Monitoring for Coal & Gas based Stations 
3 Responsibility 
Centre 
NCRHQ 
4 Brief scope of work For Coal Stations : 
i. Stack Monitoring for SPM,SOx,NOx 
ii. Flue gas flow rate monitoring 
iii. Noise monitoring 
iv. Ambient Air Quality Monitoring as per National Ambient Air quality 
Standards (NAAQS) 
v. Meteorological parameters:Wind Speed,Wind Direction,Min & Max 
Temp,Barometric Pressure, % Humidity 
vi. Water Quality Monitoring,Ash pond Effluent Monitoring,CCW 
Effluent,Boiler Blow Down,CW Source,Domestic Effluent/ Sewerage 
Treatment Plant Effluent, Surface Water Quality,Ground Water Qualityetc 
vii. For any other Environment / System Parameter Monitoring in line with 
CPCB / SPCB Guidelines. 
viii. Details shall be given in tender document 
For Gas Stations : 
i. Stack Emission Monitoring 
ii. Ambient Air Quality Monitoring as per National Ambient Air quality 
Standards (NAAQS) 
iii. Noise Monitoring 
iv. Meteorological parameters: Wind Speed, Wind Direction, Min & Max 
Temp, Barometric Pressure, % Humidity 
v. Water Quality Monitoring, CCW Effluent, Boiler Blow Down, CW Source, 
Domestic Effluent/ Sewerage Treatment Plant Effluent, Surface Water 
Quality, Ground Water Quality etc. 
vi. For any other Environment / System Parameter Monitoring in line with 
SPCB Guideline  
vii. Details shall be given in tender document 
5 Technical  
Qualifying 
requirements 
a. The applicant should have successfully executed contract for the work of 
monitoring of ambient air quality monitoring, stack flue gas samples, analysis of 
water samples and microbiological analysis of cooling water samples at any 
Industrial establishment /organisation / PSU during the last Five years from the 
date of submission of application. 
b. The applicant should have environmental laboratory  with valid certificate of 
accreditation/recognition for testing byMinistry of Environment and Forest& 
CC/Central Pollution Control Board/ State Pollution Control Board* at the time 
enlistment. 
* NTPC is having pan India presence. Those who are approved by any state PCB 
(and not by CPCB /MOEF& CC) are informed that, in case of enlistment; if they 
wish to participate in bidding process of a power station located in state other 
than the state where PCB has granted approval; they would have to obtain and 
submit copy of valid approval along with the bid from the state PCB in which the 
station is located, or from CPCB / MOEF & CC. 
Document to be 
submitted by 
Vendor in support 
of meeting QR 
1)  Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final Deviation 
Statement. 
2) Valid certificate of accreditation/recognition for environmental 
laboratory issued by Ministry of Environment and Forest/Central Pollution Control 
Board/ State Pollution Control Board. 
 
NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
CEG No EMG-01 
6 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be 
submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1.  Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during 
previous five years from the date of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill from the concerned client in support of successful 
execution of supply against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2.  Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In 
case the audited documents are not ready / available, then certified copy 
by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3.  NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate  
4.  PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
5.  Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants 
to submit. 
 
7.                Notes 1. Similar work means: The job of monitoring of ambient air quality, stack flue 
gas samples, analysis of water samples and microbiological analysis of 
cooling water samples at any Industrial establishment /organisation / PSU 
during the last Five years from the date of submission of application. 
2. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-up of 
composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any separate re-
imbursement/ escalation shall also not be considered. 
 
 
 
 
 
 