NTPC LTD CPG-1/Raipur 
VENDOR DEVELOPMENT CELL 
 
Subject: Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for ROUND THE CLOCK STONE PICKING FROM    
RUNNING CONVEYOR BELTS IN CHP (CATEGORY-I Enlistment) 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1   CEG No.   CHP-05B 
2 Brief description of 
CEG  
Vendor Enlistment for ROUND THE CLOCK STONE PICKING FROM    
RUNNING CONVEYOR BELTS IN CHP  (CATEGORY-I Enlistment) 
3 Responsibility Centre VEC 
4 TECHNICAL 
Qualifying 
Requirement 
 
The applicant should have executed contracts for picking of stones, 
boulders, foreign material pieces etc from running conveyor belts round 
the clock in coal handling plant of a thermal power plant during the last 
5 years as on the date of application. 
5 Brief scope of work 1.Stone/Boulder and Foreign Material Picking/Removal from Running 
Belt Conveyor and dropping it through discharge chutes available by the 
side of conveyors. 
2.Removal of metal foreign material after detection from metal 
detectors from running Belt conveyor. 
3.Disposal of foreign materials/ boulders etc. to the identified 
location.(if in the scope) 
4.Proper safety measures, housekeeping during and after the work. 
5.All necessary tools and tackles to be arranged by contractor. 
6 Documents to be 
submitted as proof 
of meeting the 
stipulated 
Qualifying 
Requirements  
1. Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement. 
7 Additional 
Documents to be 
Submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be 
submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
 1.Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work 
during previous five years from the date of application and Copy of   
Completion Certificate /RA Bill/ final deviation statement from the 
concerned client in support of successful execution of jobs against each 
of the POs to be submitted. 
 2.Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date of 
application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, 
then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant 
may be submitted. 
 3.NSIC / SSI / MSE registration certificate, if applicable. 
 4.PF and Service Tax registration certificate. 
 5.Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to submit. 
8 Note 1.Similar work means: Picking of stones, boulders, foreign material 
pieces etc from running conveyor belts round the clock in coal 
handling plant of a thermal power plant 
2.Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break- up of 
composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any separate re-
imbursement/ escalation shall also not be considered. 
 