 
NTPC LTD 
Vendor Development Cell, Raipur 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1 CEG No. BTG-01 
2 Brief description of 
CEG  
Long-term Maintenance Contract for Boiler, Turbine and their Auxiliaries 
3 Responsibility Centre VDC 
4 Brief scope of work 
(Indicative) 
Brief scope of work: 
a) Turbine Area: 
i. Breakdown, Overhauling and Miscellaneous Maintenance jobs of BFP, 
CEP, TDBFP Drive Turbine, TG Lub Oil/seal oil Pumps, Vacuum Pumps, 
BFP Hydro coupling, Centrifuge, Tanks and storage vessels, PHE, COLTC S 
system/pumps & other Pumps/Equipments of TG Auxiliaries area including 
Positive Displacement pumps. 
ii. Breakdown, Overhauling and Miscellaneous Maintenance jobs of High 
Pressure valves, HP/LP Bypass system valves, Large Butter fly valves (Size 
up to 220 0 NB), actuators/gear boxes, LP & HP heaters, De- aerator, High 
Pressure welding of Alloy Steel/Carbon Steel piping, Miscellaneous 
fabrication/welding, servicing of hangers, Safety valves, Condenser water 
box/Tube cleaning, Screw Compressor, EOT, Hoists, AC  System equipments 
including AHU, Insulation jobs in Turbine area. 
iii. Minor Overhauling of Turbine and associated equipments including 
Servicing of Governing system (Breakdown), servicing of ejectors, Turbine 
Bearing inspection (1 or 2 only i.e. localize d) and their replacement as 
required, LPT gland inspection/repair, Main Oil pump inspection/servicing, 
control valve servicing (Breakdown), Barring gear servicing, Servicing of 
Generator seal system (Breakdown). 
 
b) Boiler Area: 
i. Boiler tube leakage attending as per IBR regulations including all 
accessories & related works like sky climber and scaffolding installation, coil 
removal, cutting of tube by grinder, capping of tube etc. in boiler 1st & 2nd 
pass, and restoration as per original. 
ii. Preventive Maintenance/Break down maintenance/ Overhauling of Milling 
system, Feeders, Lube oils, MDV etc including coal pipe up to Burner and 
Mill reject systems. 
iii. Preventive Maintenance/Break down maintenance/ Overhauling of APH, 
Rotary Equipments (I D, PA, FD, Seal Air Fans etc) and their associated 
auxiliaries. 
iv. Routine checks, Preventive, Breakdown and overhauling Maintenance of 
Duct/damper, Soot Blowers, HP & LP Valves, LDO Pumps & system, Oil 
firing system, ESP, Storage tanks and pumps, High Pressure welding of Alloy 
Steel/Carbon Steel piping, Miscellaneous fabrication/welding, servicing of 
hangers, Safety valves, Insulation & refractory in Boiler area. 
 
Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be given in Tender 
documents. 
 
 
 
5 Qualifying 
Requirements  
1.0 Technical Criteria of QR: 
 
1.1 The bidder should possess valid Certificate of recognition as 
Special Class ‘Boiler Repairer/Erector’ issued from concerned IBR 
approving authority of any State. 
 
1.2 The bidder should have executed similar work in a Coal Based 
Thermal Power Station of India during the preceding Seven (7) years 
reckoned as on date of submission of application. 
 
Similar works is as explained in the following paragraphs and is in 
combination given hereunder: 
 
Work experience in following combination shall be considered: 
 
(A1/A3/A5 and A2/A4/A6) 
 
Notations as above are explained below: 
 
A1. Mechanical maintenance contracts of Boiler (Covering Pressure 
Parts and auxiliaries including Mills/ Fans) in a Station with unit size 
of 200 MW or above in a single contract or a separate contract(s) 
(each for a minimum period of one year.) 
 
A2. Mechanical maintenance contracts of Turbine Auxiliaries 
(including BFP/CEP and High Pressure Valves) in a Station with 
unit size of 200 MW or above for a minimum period of one (01) year 
in a single contract. 
 
A3. At least two (02) numbers ‘Overhauling of Boiler which must 
include Boiler Pressure Parts’ in combined or separate contract(s) in 
a Station with unit size of 200 MW or above. 
 
A4. At least two (02) numbers “Overhauling of Turbine (HP or IP or 
LP)” or Overhauling of Turbine Auxiliaries (including BFP/CEP and 
High Pressure Valves) in combined or a separate contract(s) in a 
Station with unit size of 200 MW or above. 
 
A5. The bidder mus t have executed erection and commissioning of 
at least one (01) Boiler of unit size 200 MW or above. 
 
A6. The bidder must have executed erection and commissioning of 
at least one (01) Turbine (HP, IP & LP) and one (01) Generator of 
unit size 200 MW or above. 
   
Note applicable to Technical Criteria: 
 
i. Reference work executed by a Bidder as a sub -contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly 
certified by Owner/ Project Authority specifying the scope of work 
executed by the subcontractor. 
ii. The word "executed" means the bidder should have achieved the criteria 
specified in the QR. Even if the total contract is not completed/closed and 
the contracts is under execution as on date of submission of  application, 
the milestone as specified in QR executed against such contract/order till 
such date will be considered, provided the same is certified by the 
Owner/Project Authority. 
 
 
FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
 
1.0 Net worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of its paid -up share capital as on the last day of the preceding 
Financial year reckoned as on date of submission of application. 
 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteri a on its own, it can 
meet the requirements of  Net worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or  Subsidiaries of the 
Holding Companies , wherever applicable. In such a case, however the 
Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsi diary(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies, in combined manner should 
not be less than 100% of their total paid up share  capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their 
respective paid-up share capitals. 
 
 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (Combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 
75% (Seventy-five percentage) of the respective paid-up share capitals and 
Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
6 Document to be 
submitted by Vendor in 
support  of meeting QR 
1. IBR Certificate 
2. Applicant should mention in his covering letter under which 
combination of QR they are applying for enlistment. Further, to be 
declared as qualified, an applicant has to meet all the requirements of 
Technical Criteria and Financial Criteria of Qualification Requirements 
(QR). 
3. Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms and 
conditions, BOQ and Client’s Completion Certificates /RA bill/Final Deviation 
Statement for the work executed and other certificate/documents. 
NTPC LTD 
Vendor Development Cell, Raipur 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
CEG No. BTG-01 
7 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
Other Documents to be submitted: 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements 
as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the 
applicants applying for enlistment: -  
 
1. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF & GST/Serv ice Tax 
registration certificate from the concerned excise department / any other 
statutory document as a proof to establish successful execution as per QR. 
2. POs (issued within last seven years reckoned as on date of submission of 
application) in support of  award and completion certificate/copies of 
invoice to establish successful execution as per QR. 
3. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In 
case the audited documents are not ready / available, then certified copy by 
a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to 
submit for enlistment.  
8 Special Terms & 
Conditions 
1. Please refer special terms & conditions (STC) of enlistment available at 
VDC portal vendor.ntpc.co.in. In addition to above vendors are requested 
to refer Special Conditions attached at Annexure-I. 
2. Vendors shall be enlisted for period of three years from the date of uploading 
of list on website, subject to fulfilment of the terms & conditions. 
 NOTES: Vendors are requested to fill up the Format attached at Annexure -II and 
upload it in the page “Technical information” under the tab “QR 
Documents” 
 
Annexure-I 
The following Special Conditions shall supplement/amend the Special Terms & Conditions (STC) uploaded 
in the VDC portal. Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions in special Conditions shall prevail over those 
in the STC. The corresponding clause number of the STC is indicated in parentheses. 
 
CEG Number BTG-01 
Name of Enlistment Package    Long-term Maintenance Contract for Boiler, Turbine and their 
Auxiliaries 
 
S.No. Name of Clause Description of Clause 
 
1. 
SELECTION 
OF ENLISTED 
VENDORS 
FOR ISSUING 
TENDER 
ENQUIRY 
 STC Clause No 
13.0 
 
Additional Sub-Clause to STC Clause 13.0 with the following: 
 
Selection of Enlisted Vendors for Issuing Tender Enquiry 
 
Applicable for Mega Contract with cost estimate for 
MEGs/CEGs above INR 4 Crore and up to INR 50 Crore:   
 
 Only AATO of the vendors who meets the technical QR and Net 
Worth criteria of financial QR will be recorded in the system for 
selection of Enlisted vendors for issuing tender enquiry as defined 
below: 
 
(i) Completion Period up to 1 year 
Vendors having AATO >=EC 
(ii) Completion Period >1 year 
            Vendors having AATO >=ECX12/CP 
 
Where AATO is annual average turnover, EC is estimated cost and 
CP is completion period. 
 
Term / Periodic Contract (applicable for only CEGs in both Cat -
1& Cat-2):  
  
1. For Term / Periodic Contract(s), contractor’s work / deployment is 
generally of repetitive nature in every year. Accordingly, selection 
of vendors from the enlisted vendors to be done based on 
annualized cost estimate instead of total cost estimate of PR.  
 
2. Accordingly, in term / periodic contract(s) selection of vendors 
from the enlisted vendors shall be done on annualized cost 
estimate basis. Further, the PRs of regular nature (Category- 1) 
having overall cost estimate more than INR 4 Cr and annualized 
cost estimate less than INR 4 Cr shall be considered for tendering 
against enlistments (CEGs) of Category-1. Same procedure to be 
adopted for vendor selection from the enlisted vendors for Mega 
Contracts (Category-2).  
 
3. Term / Periodic Contracts shall be awarded for a maximum period 
of Two Years only by using the VDC Enlistments in both Category 
-1 & 2.  
Annexure-I 
2. OFFLINE 
DOCUMENT
S  
STC Clause No 
20.0  
 
Replace existing STC Clause 20 with the following  
 
Vendor has to send hard copy of following documents in original, in 
the format given on the home page of website so as to reach the 
concerned responsibility centre. 
i. Letter of Undertaking (to be executed on non- judicial 
stamp paper of INR 100/-) 
 
ii. Power of Attorney (to be executed on non -judicial stamp 
paper of INR 100/-) 
Original Letter of Undertaking and Power of Attorney duly signed 
are to be sent by speed / registered post/ courier on following address 
so as to reach within fifteen days of submi tting the application. 
Digitally signed/signed & scanned soft copies of the aforesaid 
documents shall be uploaded in the VDC Enlistment portal 
i.e.vendor.ntpc.co.in:  
 
AGM (Vendor Development Cell),  
NTPC Ltd, Western Region-II Head Quarter,  
Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar,  
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh,  
PIN code: 492018 
 
The envelope containing the Letter of Undertaking & Power of 
Attorney shall be super scribed as follows: 
 
“Letter of Undertaking” & “Power of attorney” for Vendor 
Enlistment 
MEG / CEG: 
Responsibility Centre: 
From------------------ (Name of company)  
3. EVALUATIO
N CRITERIA 
& 
PROCESSIN
G OF 
APPLICATI
ONS (STC 
Clause 21.3) 
 
Replace STC Clause no 21.3 (Mapping of data of enlisted 
vendors) with the following 
 
Average annual turnover will be mapped against the vendors who 
meets the technical QR and Net Worth criteria of financial QR. The 
vendor has to submit financial details and upload supporting 
documents which shall be the basis for ascertaining their financi al 
capability as per laid down policy of the company. Presently no pre-
determined financial criteria (Average Annual Turnover) is being 
stipulated. 
 
However, all applicants have to upload necessarily the following 
documents: 
 
i) Average Annual Turnover (AA TO): Balance sheet and Profit & 
loss account for last three completed financial years reckoned from 
the date of submission of application. 
 
Audited Balance sheet and Profit & Loss statement of the company 
giving annual sales turn over during preceding thre e completed 
Annexure-I 
financial years reckoned from the date of submission of application 
for enlistment, has to be furnished. In case where the audited results 
of the last preceding financial year are not available, certification of 
financial statements from a practicing Chartered Accountant may be 
considered acceptable. 
 
From this, Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of the company shall 
be worked out and shall be recorded against the CEG for the enlisted 
vendors. This will be the eligibility limit for Average Annual 
Turnover of the respective enlisted vendor for sending tender 
enquiry later (but during the validity period of enlistment only) 
 
 
Selection of enlisted vendors for sending tender enquiry: 
When actual requirement emerges, based on the estimated cost and 
completion period required, selection of eligible vendors from 
amongst enlisted vendors shall be done as mentioned at Sl. No 1.0 
above of this document. 
 
ANNEXURE-II 
Format to be filled by the Vendor/Bidder and upload it under the tab “QR Documents” 
A) To satisfy the Technical Criteria specified in Qualifying requirement (QR), We give 
below the following details: 
Sl. No Description Remark  
1. The bidder should possess valid Certificate of 
recognition as Special Class ‘Boiler 
Repairer/Erector’ issued from concerned IBR 
approving authority of any State. 
YES/NO 
 
(Certificate of recognition as 
Special Class ‘Boiler 
Repairer/Erector’ issued from 
concerned IBR approving 
authority of any State  to be 
uploaded under the tab “QR  
Documents” ) 
2. The bidder should have executed similar work 
in a Coal Based Thermal Power Station of India 
during the preceding Seven (7) years reckoned 
as on date of submission of application. 
Bidder has to mention works combination under 
which bidder is meeting technical qualification 
criteria (In this regard, detailed QR may be 
referred)  
 
Works in following combinations:  
 
(A1/A3/A5 and A2/A4/A6) 
 Meeting Qualification 
requirements under following 
combination: 
A1/A3/A5 (select any one) 
and 
A2/A4/A6 (select any one) 
 
Upload the documents of 
Executed Work orders in the 
page “Technical information” 
under Tab “Upload PO” and 
its execution proofs/completion 
certificates etc in the same 
order (i.e. as per work order) 
under the tab 
“Bill/Deviation/Completion 
Certificate” in a single 
compiled pdf  
(as per work combination 
mentioned above) 
 
B) To satisfy the financial Criteria specified in Qualifying requirement (QR), We give 
below the following details: 
 
We hereby confirm that net worth of our company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is not less than 100% of its paid-up share capital. 
The Details are as under: 
Sl. No Description As on last day of the 
preceding financial year 
1. Paid-up Share Capital  
2. Net Worth  
3. %age of Net worth to Paid-up Share Capital  
4. Documentary evidence like Audited  Financial 
statements (Balance sheet & Profit loss 
statement) for the preceding financial year  in 
support of    above    is    enclosed    
YES / NO 
 
 
(Upload the documents in the 
page “Financial information” 
under Tab “Choose file” ) 
 
Additional financial data 
 
Sl.No Financial Year* Amount in Rs. 
1.  2018 – 2019*       
2.  2019 – 2020*       
3.  2020 – 2021*       
4.  Average Annual Turnover for the preceding 
three (3) Financial Years as on date of 
submission of application 
      
5.  We have enclosed Audited financial 
statements (Balance sheet & Profit loss 
statement ) for the preceding three (3) financial 
years   
YES / NO 
(Upload the documents in the page 
“Financial information” under Tab 
“Choose file” ) 
(*) Preceding 3 financial year is from the date of submission of application 
Notes: 
1. In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on date of submission of application are 
not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, 
a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO stating that the Financial results of the Company 
are under audit as on the date of s ubmission of application and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
2. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves mean all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited 
out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further 
any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or 
written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
3. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
4. Wherever there is more than one document to be uploaded under a single tab available, vendors are 
requested to combine all the pdf into single .pdf file before uploading. 
 