NTPC LTD  
      VDC, USSC, VDC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No. CHP-10A 
2 Brief description of CEG Chute fabrication & erection works in CHP 
3 Responsibility Centre USSC-VEC 
4 Brief scope of work a) Fabrication, Erection/replacement & repair of CHP 
conveyor chute mother plates, Liner plates, 
skirtboards, deflector plates and Flap gates. 
b) Fabrication, replacement & repair of conveyor 
support items such as short supports, stringer 
channel, seal plates, deck sheets & conveyor 
walkways. 
c) Fabrication, Erection/replacement & repair of Coal 
Bunker grills & Track hopper grills. 
d) Fabrication, Erection/replacement & repair of 
ventilation system/ Ducts, Tramp iron ducts. 
e) Fabrication, replacement & repair of TP staircase 
steps, approach platforms and other safety related 
miscellaneous structural fabrication works for Coal 
Handling plants. 
 
 
5 Technical Qualifying 
Requirements 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment 
shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated here 
under: 
Technical Criteria: 
B.1 The applicant should have executed the works of Steel 
‘Structural Fabrication and/or Erection’ of not less than 100 
Metric Tonnes (MT) in a single contract  in the Coal Handling 
Plant (CHP) of a ‘Thermal Power Plant /Coal Mines/Iron & 
Steel Plant/Cement Plant/Aluminium Plant’ or ‘any other 
Industrial Establishment having Coal Handling Plant’ during 
preceding five years from the last date of submission of 
application. 
 
B.2 The scope of work of the credential work order submitted 
in support to B.1 above should include ‘fabrication and/or 
erection and/or replacement’ of CHUTE. 
6 DOCUMENT TO BE 
SUBMITTED BY VENDOR IN 
SUPPORT OF MEETING QR 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the 
stipulated Qualifying Requirements as stated B) 
above. 
 
QR-1: (i) Proof of work order/PO of 100 MT steel fabrication 
work, which includes ‘structural fabrication and /or erection 
or replacement of chute’ within preceding five (5) years from 
the last date of submission of application. 
 
(ii) Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-
contractor may also be considered provided that the 
certificate issued by the main contractor is duly certified by 
the owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-
contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
 
 
7 Other Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at (B) above, following documents are also 
required to be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment for 
establishing execution capability: 
 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar 
works during previous five years from the last date of 
submission of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion 
certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs to be 
submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement 
for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the last date of submission of 
application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available / applicable, then certified copy by a 
registered practicing Chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
3. Udyam Registration / NSIC registration certificate. 
4. PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
6. Maximum three credential work orders shall be 
considered for Execution Capability (EC). 
The submitted documents and facilities may be verified/ 
assessed, if required. 
8 Similar Works  
“Similar works” means the works involving Steel ‘Structural 
Fabrication and/or Erection’ in any industry within preceding 
five (5) years from the last date of submission of application. 
9 Notes All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
10 Quality Plan Not Applicable 
11 Category of Enlistment Categoty-1 
 
 