NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 CEG No.  TMD-03  
2 Brief description of CEG Condenser Tube Cleaning by High pressure Jet Cleaning  Method in 
Units above  200MW  
3 Responsibility Centre WRHQ-II 
4 Brief scope of work 1. Preparatory works like scaffolding works, platform and other 
safety arrangements required for condenser tube cleaning.  
2. Cleaning of Water box, tube plates, and all condenser tubes of 
each pass Cleaning by High pressure Jet Cleaning Method. 
3. Housekeeping of area/ Disposal of  Sludge & waste materials 
from condenser water boxes  
4. Plugging of leaky tubes 
5. Inspection / rectification for any leakages / defects if any after 
testing/charging the system. 
 6. Proper housekeeping during and after the work. 
 7. Proper safety measures, housekeeping during and after the work.    
8. All necessary tools and tackles to be arranged by contractor.    
9. Details will be given in tender documents . 
5 Technical  Qualifying 
requirements 
Vendor should have executed the job of  Condenser Tubes cleaning 
by High pressure Jet Cleaning  Method along with necessary 
Machinery and accessories for 200 MW or above unit capacity 
Turbine during the last 5 years as on the date of application. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor in 
support of meeting QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement . 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
CEG No.  TMD-03  
6 Additional Documents 
to be submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment:- 
1.  Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar 
work during previous five years from the date of application and 
Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill(s)/  Final Deviation 
Statement from the concerned client in support of successful 
execution of jobs against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2.  Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date 
of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / 
available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered 
accountant may be submitted. 
3.  NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate, if any. 
4.  PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
5.  Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
7 NOTES: 1.  Similar work means the job of condenser tubes cleaning by High 
pressure Jet Cleaning Method along with necessary machinery 
and accessories for unit capacity 200MW or above. 
2.  Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite 
(i.e. including service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-
up of composite PO value mentoring basic value, taxes etc. Any 
separate re-imbursement/escalation shall not be considered . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 