INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Development, Design and Setup of ‘150 TPD CO2 to Green Urea (CTGU) Plant’ at NTPC 
Pudimadaka 
 
(INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No: 2026_NTPC_107725_1 
 
Bidding Document No: CS-9590-130E-2          Date:   01.05.2026 
 
1.0 NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope I: Techno-
Commercial Bid & Envelope II: Price Bid) from both Local (Class-I & Class-II) and Non-Local 
suppliers for the aforesaid Package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Bidder shall execute the project on a Lump Sum  basis, covering Licensing, Design, 
Engineering, Fabrication, Packing, Forwarding, Supply, Transportation and handling, Custom 
duty (and any other duties), Freight, Insurance, Loading & Unloading, Storage, Construction, 
Erection, Commissioning, Testing, PG Test, Training - in line with the specifications for the 
complete 150 TPD CO2 to Green Urea (CTGU) plant. 
 
The project comprises five (05) blocks of nominal capacity at two locations approx. 25km apart: 
325 TPD CO₂ Capture (at Simhadri), 15.3 TPD Hydrogen, ~70 TPD Nitrogen, 85 TPD Ammonia, 
and 150 TPD Urea Plant (at Pudimadaka).Scope includes all process units, utilities, offsites, 
interconnections, and balance of plant systems required for safe and reliable operation, including 
integration with NTPC facilities at specified terminal points. 
 
The Bidder shall design and provide all interfacing systems for tapping utilities from designated 
points, including all required materials, equipment, and services. Performance Guarantee (PG) 
tests shall be conducted to demonstrate guaranteed capacities and product quality. The Bidder 
shall obtain all statutory approvals and ensure compliance with applicable regulations (including 
Consent to Establish, Consent to Operate, Forest Clearance, EIA, QRA, etc.), and shall be 
responsible for safety management including deployment of safety personnel, provision of PPE, 
insurance, quality assurance, site execution, training, documentation, commissioning support, 
and supply of spares and consumables. 
 
3.0 The Bidding Schedule: 
 
Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding 
Schedule* for the Tender is as under: 
 
Issue of IFB (Advance Intimation to Bidder) 10.04.2026 
Issue of IFB 01.05.2026 
Bidding Document No CS-9590-130E-9 
Documents Download Date & Timing  From 08.05.2026 at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in  
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time 19.05.2026, 10:00 Hrs. 
Pre-Bid Conference Venue 
NTPC Simhadri, Visakhapatnam, Andhra 
Pradesh. 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any)** 
21.05.2026 
Bid receipt date & time for Envelope-I 
(Techno–Commercial) & Envelope-II (Price) 
bid 
08.06.2026; 13:00 Hrs.  (IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for Envelope-I 
(Techno–Commercial) bid 
08.06.2026; 15:00 Hrs. (IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for Envelope-II 
(Price) bid 
Shall be intimated after opening of Envelope-
I (Techno-Commercial) Bids. 
 
*Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding 
schedule of the Tender.  
 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC. 
 
 
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 200,000,000/- (Indian Rupees 
Two Hundred Million only) or USD 2,109,300/- (Two Million One Hundred Nine Thousand Three 
Hundred US Dollars) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF 
OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE 
E-TENDERING PORTAL 
 
5.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the e-
Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. The 
bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital 
Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, 
bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e-
tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from agencies authorized by Govt. of 
India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed guidelines on enrolment and 
participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY at the 
e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-1 to IFB. 
  
7.0 Both Local (Class-I & Class-II) and Non-Local suppliers are eligible to participate in this tender, 
as defined in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of 
their bids. 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
8.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible 
to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
9.0 The package is a tender for works contract. Accordingly, the MSE benefits are not applicable. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe that 
such bidder is considered to be qualified. 
 
12.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids (under 
subject IFB) without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
13.0 Address for Communication : 
 
Sr. Manager (CS)/ AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
Contact: 9555551491 / 9650992301 
e-mail: rohitgautam@ntpc.co.in / abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in 
Websites:  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
     or https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
14.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in   
 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the bidder should also meet 
the Qualifying Requirements criteria specified below at clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 (as applicable) and 2.1 or 
2.2. 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA:  
1.1 Route 1: 
1.1.1 The Bidder should have executed process plant project(s) for Urea production of capacity not less 
than 150 TPD having CO2 Capture from Flue Gas, Ammonia Synthesis and Urea Production 
Technology. Such project(s) should have been executed on Lump Sum Turnkey (LSTK) or 
Engineering, Procurement, Construction & Commissioning (EPCC) basis, during the last fifteen (15) 
years, reckoned as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening. The reference plant(s) should 
have been successfully operated for at least six (06) months prior to the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening. 
 
The Bidder should have a valid Technology License Agreement / Agreement for the Right to Use 
for the above mentioned technologies in clause 1.1.1 and it should be valid for at least five (05) 
years from the date of techno-commercial bid opening or till the end of Defect Liability Period (DLP) 
of the contract, whichever is later. 
 
 
1.2 Route 2: 
1.2.1 The bidder should have executed process plant project(s) on a Lump Sum TurnKey (LSTK) or 
Engineering, Procurement, Construction & Commissioning (EPCC) basis in Fertilizer/ Refinery/ 
Petrochemicals/ Hydrocarbon (Oil & Gas/ LNG) sectors during the last fifteen (15) years, reckoned 
as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, with a cumulative value of such project(s) being 
INR 10,790 Million (Indian Rupees Ten Thousand, Seven Hundred Ninety Million only) or more with 
individual contract value of such project(s) not less than INR 3,600 Million (Indian Rupees Three 
Thousand and Six Hundred Million only). The reference plant(s) should have been successfully 
operated for at least 12 months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
And 
1.2.2 The bidder, as on the date of Techno- commercial bid opening, should have a valid Technology License 
Agreement / Agreement for the Right to Use the following Technologies from the respective 
Technology Licensor(s): 
a) CO2 Capture Technology from Flue Gas: The CO2 Capture from Flue Gas Technology Licensor 
should have a reference of at least one plant of minimum 110 TPD capacity which should have been 
successfully operated for at least 12 months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
Bidder shall submit documentary proof to demonstrate compliance with this requirement . 
 
b) Ammonia Synthesis Technology: The Ammonia Synthesis Technology Licensor shall have a 
reference of at least one single stream plant/ unit of minimum 85 TPD capacity which should have 
been successfully operated for at least 12 months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
Bidder shall submit documentary proof to demonstrate compliance with this requirement . 
c) Urea Technology: The Urea Technology Licensor shall have a reference of at least one plant of 
minimum 150 TPD capacity which should have been successfully operated for at least 12 months 
prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. Bidder shall submit documentary proof to 
demonstrate compliance with this requirement . 
1.3 Route 3: 
1.3.1 Bidder shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of up to three (3) corporate entities and shall 
collectively meet the requirement stipulated under para 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 above. 
The consortium shall identify one of the partners as ‘Lead Partner’. The Lead partner should have 
executed at least one process plant project having contract value not less than INR 3,600 Million 
(Indian Rupees Three Thousand and Six Hundred Million only) for meeting the criteria specified at 
para 1.2.1 above. 
1.3.2 The Consortium partners will be required to jointly enter into a legally enforceable Consortium Agreement 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents and furnish the agreement along with the Techno- 
commercial Bid. Each of the Consortium partners shall be jointly and severally responsible and liable to 
the Owner to perform all contractual obligations including but not limited to scope of work, deliverables, 
performance guarantees, and any obligations arising during execution and post-commissioning . 
 
The consortium Agreement shall remain valid for a period of Five (05) years from the date of formation 
of the Consortium or up to the end of Defect Liability Period (DLP) of the contract, whichever is later. 
Submission of Consortium Agreement is a mandatory requirement, and non-submission thereof shall 
lead to rejection of the bid. 
 
No Consortium partner shall participate as an independent bidder, or as partner of other Consortium. 
 
1.3.3 Consortium partners shall collectively be required to furnish “Contract Performance Security” as specified 
in bidding documents irrespective of their share and role in the Consortium. However, out of total 
“Contract Performance Security”, each Consortium partner shall necessarily furnish at least 10% of the 
“Contract Performance Security” as specified in bidding documents. 
 
1.3.4 Consortium partners (including the lead partner) shall collectively be required to submit Additional Bank 
Guarantees for a total amount of 2% of total contract price as specified in bidding documents for 
successful integration of scope of package. Further , each Consortium partner shall necessarily furnish 
Bank Guarantees (BGs) for at least 0.2% of the total contract price in the form of such Additional Bank 
Guarantee for successful integration/ interfacing. 
 
 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0: 
 
 
(A) For Clause 1.1, Clause 1.2 and Clause 1.3: 
(i) Technology Licensor’ is an entity which is either (a) ‘Owner of the Technology’; OR (b) an entity 
that has obtained following ‘Rights’ from the ‘Owner of the Technology’- 
(b.1) ‘Right to Use’ the Technology; and 
(b.2) Right to enter into Technology License Agreement / Agreement for the Right to Use the  
Technology with the bidder. 
(ii) The word “Process Plant” in Clause 1.2.1 means the bidder should have executed work 
related to process plant.  Exclusive experience of Utility System / Utility block/ wastewater 
effluent treatment/Sewage treatment plant/ Water Treatment Plant/offsite facilities/Balance of 
Plant (BoP) / firefighting systems/piping network/ cross country piping works/infrastructure 
works/cooling water systems/ substations/switchyards/ civil and offsite works like buildings, 
roads, drains, tank farms/storage and other non-process facilities, etc. shall not be 
considered as relevant experience. 
(iii) A bidder can submit Technology License Agreement / Agreement for the Right to Use 
Technologies with only one ‘Technology Licensor’ for each of the Ammonia, Urea and CO2 
Capture Technology. However, one Technology Licensor can provide its Technology License 
to multiple bidders. 
(iv) Technology License Agreement between the Bidder and Technology Licensor shall be valid for 
at least five (05) years from the date of techno-commercial bid opening or till the end of Defect 
Liability Period (DLP) of the contract, whichever is later. 
(v) The Bidder shall also be considered qualified, in case the award for executing the reference 
works has been received by the Bidder, either directly from the owner of the plant, or any other 
intermediary organization. However, a certificate from the owner of the plant, shall be furnished 
by the Bidder along with the techno-commercial bid for the successful operation criterion, as 
specified. 
(vi) The word “executed” in Clause-1.0 means the Bidder should have commissioned the plant(s) 
within the specified period even if the contract has been started earlier and/ or is not closed. 
(vii) EPCC basis under Clause-1.0 means that Engineering, Procurement, Construction & 
Commissioning should have been in the scope of the bidder for the reference work. 
(viii) The specified value of executed work is excluding of any taxes and duties. 
(ix) If the value of the reference works indicated at Clause-1.2.1 and 1.3.1 is in foreign currency, 
SBI bill selling exchange rate as on the date of award of the reference work shall be 
considered. In case the exchange rate as on the date of award is not available, the exchange 
rate as on the next available day shall be considered. 
(B) Clause 1.2 and Clause 1.3: 
 
(i) Plant(s) executed by Bidder’s subsidiaries, and/ or holding company, shall be considered as 
bidder’s experience for meeting the QR under Clause- 1.2.1 and 1.3.1. In such case, the bidder 
shall submit a Deed of Joint Undertaking as per the format enclosed with the bidding 
documents, wherein the holding company and all such subsidiaries lending strength/ 
experience to the Bidder shall necessarily be part of Deed of Joint Undertaking for successful 
performance of the contract. This Deed of Joint Undertaking must be submitted in original 
along with the techno-commercial bid, failing which, the Bidder shall be disqualified and its bid 
shall be rejected. 
 
Further, in case of award, the holding company and all such subsidiaries lending strength/ 
experience to the Bidder shall be required to submit separate on demand Performance Security 
for an amount aggregating 2% of the total contract price divided equally among them in addition 
to the Contract Performance Security to be furnished by the Bidder. 
 
(ii) For establishing criteria mentioned clause 1.2.1 and 1.3.1, the value of executed reference 
work(s) shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at current price level by adding 5% 
for each year on pro-rata basis after the end date of completion/execution/commissioning of 
the reference work, till the last day of month previous to one in which NIT has been invited. 
 
 
 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA:  
 
 
2.1 Financial Criteria for the Bidder seeking qualification through Route- 1 and Route- 2: 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 3,080 Million (INR 
Three Thousand Eighty Million only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
2.1.2 In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid- up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by 
the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder, in case of award. 
2.1.3 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid-up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. 
In case, the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/ or Holding 
Company and/ or Subsidiaries of its Holding company, wherever applicable. In such a case, 
however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% 
(hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth 
should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 Where X1,X2,X3 are individual Net 
worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 
are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.1.4 In case, the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation 
of its qualification: 
a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies 
of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
b) A Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with 
the bidding documents, stating that the financial statements form part of the consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company. 
2.1.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the 
financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
NOTE FOR CLAUSE-2.1: 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but do not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous 
expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies 
Act of India. 
iv) For Annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, SBI Bill Selling exchange rate as on seven 
(7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. In case the exchange 
rate as on (7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening is not available, the 
exchange rate as on the next available day shall be considered. 
 
 
2.2 Financial Criteria for the Bidder seeking qualification through Route- 3 (Consortium): 
2.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Consortium collectively, in the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 3,080 Million (INR Three 
Thousand Eighty Million only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
2.2.2 Further, average annual turnover of the Lead Partner of the Consortium in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall not be less than 75% of the total 
annual turnover requirement specified for Consortium as above. 
2.2.3 Further, other Consortium Partners(s) should individually meet at least 10% of the total annual turnover 
requirement specified for consortium as above. 
2.2.4 For meeting financial criteria, all the Consortium Partners shall consider the same set of three consecutive 
Financial Years. 
2.2.5 Net worth of all the Consortium partners in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their  
paid-up share capital. Further, , their Net worth, individually, should not be less than 75% of their 
respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 Where X1,X2,X3 are individual Net worth 
which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual 
paid up share capitals. 
 
 
2.2.6    In case, the Consortium Partner is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Consortium Partner(s) can be 
considered acceptable provided the Consortium Partner(s) furnishes the following further documents 
on substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Consortium Partner(s) along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of 
Consortium Partner(s). 
ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of Consortium Partner(s). 
2.2.7 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable. In case, Consortium Partner(s) is not able to submit the Certificate from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as 
on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
NOTE FOR CLAUSE-2.2: 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited 
out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written 
off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to the 
date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
v) In case Lead Partner or any other Partner in the Consortium does not satisfy the average annual turnover 
criteria, stipulated above at Clause 2.2.2 & 2.2.3 on their own, then their Holding Company would be 
required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such 
Holding Company, as on the last day of the preceding financial year, is at least equal to or more than the 
paid- up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, each Partner of the Consortium 
qualifying on the strength of their Holding Company, would be required to furnish along with its Techno- 
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by Board Resolution of 
the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support to the Consortium Partner, for the execution of the Contract by the 
Consortium (Bidder) in case of award. 