1  
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
C&M, CPG-1, USSC NTPC RAIPUR 
 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER 
 
Bidding Document Number: 9900322632 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against th is Bid Document No. / Specification 
and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise used for purposes other  than that for which it is 
specifically issued). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  
SECTION-I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS/NOTICE INVITING TENDER (IFB/NIT) 
 
'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids." 
 
1.0 NTPC Ltd ., CPG-1, C&M department, Raipur  invites online bids on SINGLE STAGE TWO ENVELOP  
BIDDING basis from Eligible bidders for aforesaid Package as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned herein 
after: 
 
2.0 Brief Details: 
 
Brief Scope: Biennial Road Cleaning Contract Under Civil Maintenance at NTPC Darlipali 
2.1 NIT NO  9900322632 
GeM tender ID GEM/2026/B/7394698 
2.2 Description of work: Biennial Road Cleaning Contract Under Civil Maintenance at 
NTPC Darlipali. 
2.3 Source of NIT  C&M-1 (Raipur), NTPC Ltd. 
2.4 Contract Classification  Service contract. 
2.5 Tender value Rs 1,39,93,680.40 /- Excluding GST  
Rs 1,65,12,542.87 /- Including GST considering @18% 
Free Issue Material: NIL 
2.6 Last Date and Time for Bid 
Submission 
28.04.2026, 16:00 Hrs.. 
2.7 Last Query Date All the critical dates are as per GeM Portal. 
2.8 Technical Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
28.04.2026, 16:30 Hrs.. 
2.9 Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after evaluation of 
Techno-Commercial Bid through GeM Portal. 
2.10 
(a)  Tender Fee  Not Applicable  
2.10 (b) Bid Security/EMD 
  INR 2,00,000/- (Two Lakhs Only). 
 
 EMD exemption is applicable in the subject NIT for MSE 
Registered Bidders and as per GEM GTC. 
 
 Mode of Submission of Bid security: 
 
a) Bank Guarantee OR 
3  
       b)   Insurance surety bond 
2.11 INTEGRITY PACT   Not Applicable.  
2.12 EVALUATION OVERALL / LUMPSUM. 
2.13 MSE Benefits Applicable. 
Benefits under PPP 2012 for MSEs are applicable only for (a) 
Goods produced and (b) Services provid ed by MSEs. In this 
regard, OM dated 9.11.2016 and its subsequent 
amendment/clarifications issued by MSME from time to time 
regarding definition of Goods and Services may be referred. 
MSE benefits shall not be applicable to Trader/Dealer of Goods. 
Further, MSE benefits shall also not be applicable for Works 
Contracts. 
Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) having Udyam 
Registration for Goods produced and Services rendered shall 
only be eligible for MSE benefits. 
In case of an upward change in terms of investment in plant and 
machinery or equipment or turnover or both, and consequent 
re-classification, an enterprise shall continue to avail of all non -
tax benefits of the category (micro or small or medium) it was in 
before the re -classification, for a period of th ree years from the 
date of such upward change. 
The benefits to the participating Service Providers under PPP 
2012 shall be applicable irrespective of product (Goods / 
Services) categories for which bidder is registered as MSE. 
Bidder may refer the clause n o 28 of SCC for Purchase 
preference to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) [MSE-SC-ST 
or MSE Women Vendors]. Further, Performance BG/Security 
Deposit for MSE-SC-ST or MSE Women Vendors shall be 2.5% 
of the Contract Value. Refer the relevant Clause 28 of SCC  and 
Clause 43 of SCC.   
2.14 Make in India Policy 
 
APPLICABLE (For details refer ITB) 
'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to  participate in this 
tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids." 
2.15 Preference to Class-I Local 
Suppliers 
Class-I Local Suppliers only are eligible to participate in tender.  
2.16 Contract Period 24 Months  
2.17 Splitting of quantity (MSE) Not allowed. 
2.18 Reverse auction Not Applicable 
2.19 Mobilization Period 07 days from Issue of LOA (Tentatively)  
4  
2.20 The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be subm itted in the form of e -BG through 
NeSL platform. [NTPC format Only] and attach at E-Tendering Portal. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e -BG, due to some practical difficulties or 
constraints , physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG/  Insurance Surety bond as bid 
security, if opted for, should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach 
address for correspondence before the bid submission deadline in physical form and 
scanned copy of BG/  Insurance Surety must be uploaded in the  FEE folder in the  tendering 
portal. (Refer Clause 14 of SCC for complete detail and Optional Provisions) 
Formats of Bid security (Physical BG/e -BG/Insurance surety bond) shall be as per attached 
in Bidding documents ONLY [NTPC Format]. Physical BG/e -BG/Insurance surety bond in 
any other formats shall be liable for rejection.  
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJE CTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/EFT, BIDDER TO 
SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.  
 
FURTHER STAGE-II (PRICE BID) (IN CASE OF TWO STAGE BIDDING) NOT ACCOMPANIED 
BY REQUISITE BID SECURITY EXTENSION (IN CASE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED IN THE 
FORM OF BG/  INSURANCE SURETY BOND) IN A SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL 
BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE 
 
3.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS: 
 The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they fulfill the 
following Qualifying Requirements: 
 
3.1 Technical Criteria: 
3.1.1 
 
The bidder should have executed ‘Cleaning and/or Sweeping' of Roads or Public Places by 
'Truck Mounted Mechanical Road Sweeping Machine’  during the preceding seven (07) years 
prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, in any of following manner: 
 
a. Single order having executed value of above work(s) not less than Rs. 56 Lakhs. 
OR 
b. Two orders having executed value of above work(s) not less than Rs. 35 Lakhs each. 
OR 
c. Three orders having executed value of above work(s) not less than Rs. 28 Lakhs each. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0 above: 
 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work execute d prior to the date of Techno -
Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
5  
 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub -contractor may also be considered provided 
the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the scope of 
work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
4. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be 
considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break – up of 
basic value and taxes. 
3.2 Financial Criteria: 
  
3.2.1   The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, shall not be less than Rs. 70 Lakhs (Rupees 
Seventy Lakhs only). 
3.2.2    In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financi al criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 3.2.1 above on 
its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements at Cl. No. 3.2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company 
as on the last day of the preceding fi nancial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -
up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to 
furnish along with its Techno - Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by  the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for 
the execution of the contract by the bidder in case of award. 
 
3.2.3    In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation 
of its qualification: 
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
 
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format encl osed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the Holding Company. 
 
3.2.4  In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the dat e of Techno -
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit 
6  
the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying  its financial parameters, the 
audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial 
year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would 
be required from CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that 
the financial results of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial 
bid opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial 
parameters is not available. 
 Notes for Clause 2.0 above: 
1.0      Net worth means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not 
include reserves credited out of t he revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus. 
2.0       Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
3.0      “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act of India. 
4  
Please refer ITB 5.4  and Attachment -3: submit all the documents in support of Technical 
Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract 
Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from 
Independent Stat utory Auditor of their Company or specified Third -Party Inspection Agency 
(TPIA).  
 
a) Proprietorship and Partnership Firms  are required to submit Undertaking/  Certificate of 
authenticity from Third Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) only.  
 
b) Bidder as  Company can submit  Certification/ Undertaking for authenticity  of documents 
either from Independent Statutory Auditor of their company or from specified TPIA.   
 
c) If any of the Submitted Reference work executed by Bidder are  directly awarded to them by 
NTPC or Subsidiary / JV companies of NTPC; then for those reference works only, Bidder shall 
not be required to submit Client Certificate (s) or Certificate of authenticity from Independent 
Statutory Auditor or specified TPIA.    
 
d) The undertaking/Certificat e of   authenticity issued from    Independent Statutory Auditor or 
specified TPIA    submitted   for any reference work/s in earlier   tender/s floated from NTPC;  
can be submitted by the bidder in the present tender or any   future tenders subject to fulfilment 
of QR criteria as stipulated in NIT. The same would be acceptable  subject to conditions 
mentioned at NOTE at A) above.   
 
e) Further if any of the reference work submitted in the present tender, have already been 
submitted and verified/accepted  by NTPC in earlier tender/s , details of   NIT no, tender inviting 
authority etc of that    earlier tender/s  are to be filled up by the bidder in Attachment -3 of the 
present tender.  The same may   be accepted for the purpose of authenticity, subject to 
7  
confirmations & fulfilment of qualifying requirement of the present tender.   
 
f) However, if required by NTPC,  the bidder shall have to    submit Undertaking/Certificate 
of   authenticity issued from    Independent Statutory Auditor o r specified TPIA    for any of the 
reference work(s) submitted in earlier tender.    
 
g) Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ sub sidiaries / 
group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment 
in the overall interest of the Employer.   
 
h) The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be 
limited to the as sessment/verifications  of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works 
in lieu of credentials. A negative determination of such assessment of 
credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid.  
 
 * Note: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of 
India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will 
carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette 
Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
5. The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered  to 
ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The  Employer at its 
discretion may seek any clarification and/or documentary evidence only for  the reference works as 
mentioned their Bid . However, no change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional 
plant for conforming to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”. 
 
6. 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in th is tender, as defined in the bidding  
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
Minimum Local Content = 60.0%. 
 
7. Any ‘Bidder from a country which  shares a land  border with India’, as specified  in the  Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the  Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid 
only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority.  
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those co untries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects  
 
8. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for  Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending  bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be  downloaded 
by any interested Bidder from the GeM Portal (https://gem.gov.in). The Bidder  would be required to 
register on the GeM Portal as a seller. 
8  
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
10. Address for communication:  
 
     DGM/AGM (CPG-I/C&M) 
NTPC Limited, Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-I, 
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515568/0771-2515240 
Email: pankajkumar07@ntpc.co.in / rhshankarrao@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: www.gem.gov.in or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
11. Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE 
Complex, 7, Institutional Area, 
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 