NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
                                         
RENEWABLE ENERGY – CONTRACTS SERVICES,  
 
4th Floor, RE Building, NETRA Complex 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida 
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
 
 
SECTION‐I 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) or  
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 PROCUREMENT OF THREE (03) NOS. HYDROGEN FUEL CELL BUSES FOR GREEN 
HYDROGEN MOBILITY PROJECT IN BHUBANESWAR, ODISHA 
 
 
Bid Document No.- GEM/2026/B/7445119 
 
 
 
 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against this Bid Document 
No. / Specification and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise used for 
purposes other than that for which it is specifically issued). 
 
 
 
 

SECTION‐I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS/NOTICE INVITING TENDER (IFB/NIT) 
  
 'Class‐I and Class-II local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of 
the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
1.0 NTPC Limited invites online bids on SINGLE STAGE TWO ENVELOPE BIDDING basis from 
Eligible bidders for aforesaid Package as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned herein after. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
  
2.1 BID NO GEM/2026/B/7445119 
2.2 Description of work Procurement of Three (03) nos. Hydrogen 
Fuel Cell buses for Green Hydrogen Mobility 
Project in Bhubaneswar, Odisha. 
2.3 Source of NIT NTPC LTD, Greater NOIDA 
2.4 Purchase Classification Supply 
2.4 a Location of supply Bhubaneswar, Odisha 
2.5 Last Date and Time for Bid 
Submission 
All the critical dates are as per GeM Portal 
2.6 Last Query Date All the critical dates are as per GeM Portal 
2.7 Technical Bid Opening 
Date & Time 
All the critical dates are as per GeM Portal 
2.8 Price Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
Shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after 
evaluation of  Techno-Commercial Bid through 
GeM Portal 
2.9  Tender Fee Not Applicable 
2.10 Bid Security/EMD INR 20,00,000 (Indian Rupees Twenty Lakh 
only). 
EMD exemption is applicable in the subject 
NIT for MSE Registered Bidders under 
UDYAM Only. 
2.11 INTEGRITY PACT (To be 
submitted online only) 
Applicable. For Format, refer Section-VII “Forms 
& Procedure of the Bidding Document. 
2.12 Evaluation Overall Lumpsum Basis 
2.13 MSE Benefits in Award & 
EMD 
Applicable. 
Benefits under PPP 2012 for MSEs are 
applicable only for (a) Goods produced and (b) 
Services provided by MSEs. In this regard, OM 
dated 9.11.2016 and its subsequent 
amendment / clarifications issued by MSME 
from time to time regarding definition of Goods 
and Services may be referred. 
  
MSE benefits shal l not be applicable to 
Trader/Dealer of Goods. Further, MSE benefits 
shall also not be applicable for Works Contracts. 
 
Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) having 
Latest Udyam Registration only for Goods 
produced and Services rendered shall only 
be eligible for MSE benefits. 
 
In case of an upward change in terms of 
investment in plant and machinery or equipment 
or turnover or both, and consequent re -
classification, an enterprise shall continue to 
avail of all nontax benefits of the category (micro 
or small o r medium) it was in before the re -
classification, for a period of three years from the 
date of such upward change.  
The benefits to the participating Service 
Providers under PPP 2012 shall be applicable 
irrespective of product (Goods / Services) 
categories for which bidder is registered as 
MSE. 
 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) who are holding valid Udyam 
Registration and are manufacturer of the offered Product or Service 
(Primary Product / Service ‐ in case of bunch bid with total value wise 
evaluation) and give specific confirmation to this effect at the time of bid 
submission and whose credentials are validated online through Udyam 
Registration website of Ministry of MSME and also through supporting 
document uploaded during bidding process and validate d by the Buyer. 
Therefore, for availing exemption Benefit in Award, Bidders are requested 
to submit only “LATEST UDYAM REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE”. Other 
MSE related documents like “Udyog Aadhar Memorandum (UAM) or “NSIC 
certificate” etc. or any other certificate issued by Ministry of Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises as per MSMED Act 2006 , for goods produced 
and services rendered will not be considered as a MSE exemption 
certificate. 
2.14 Make in India Policy APPLICABLE (For details refer ITB) 'Class ‐I 
and Class -II local suppliers’ are  eligible to 
participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued 
by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise th emselves 
of the relevant provisions of bidding documents 
in this regard before submission of their bids. 
2.15 Preference to Local 
Suppliers 
Class-I and Class-II Local Suppliers are eligible 
to participate in this tender.  Bids of Non- Local 
Suppliers, if received, shall be outrightly rejected. 
 
Purchase preference shall be given to 'Class -I 
local supplier'. 
21.6 Delivery Period The 1st bus should be supplied within (5) five 
months from the date of letter of award (LOA) 
and remaining buses be delivered within next 
two (2) months.  
2.17 Comprehensive 
Maintenance 
10 Years from COD (Commercial Operation 
Date) of FCEBs being supplied under the 
contract against each location. Bidder may refer 
to the detailed scope for CMS in Part C. 
2.18 Contract Performance 
Guarantee (CPG/PBG) 
Contract Performance shall be 5 % of the total 
contract price (Initial cost and O&M Cost) as 
awarded to Bidder  (refer clause no -12 of 
Technical Specifications). 
2.19 Splitting of quantity (MSE) Not allowed. 
2.20 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 20,00,000 
(Indian Rupees Twenty Lakh only). 
 
While submitting the bid for the subject work, please upload EMD BG 
online along with your offer. Hard copy of original EMD BG shall reach 
NTPC  office at the address mentioned at para 5.0, prior to the last date 
& time of bid submission  
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE 
EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY 
IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/EFT, BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -
BG/PROOF OF E PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
2.21 DELETED 
2.22 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified 
in the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding 
Documents. Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified 
Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which 
shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. However, the said requirement 
of registration will not apply to bidde rs from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of 
credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
3.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS:  
 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder 
(ITB), the Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements st ipulated 
hereunder in clause 3.1 and clause 3.2 as below: 
3.1 TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
3.1.1 Route 1: 
 
The Bidder should be a Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus manufacturer/ manufacturer’s 
representative and have completed testing and certification requirement under 
Indian Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 (CMVR) from the notified testing 
agencies of at least one (1) Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus. The approval should have 
been done at least one (1) month prior to the date of techno -commercial bid 
opening.  
OR 
3.1.2 Route 2: 
 
The Bidder should be a Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus manufacturer/ manufacturer’s 
representative and have completed trial run on road and the applicable 
Automotive Safety Assessment from the notified testing agencies of at least one 
(1) Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus. The assessment should have been completed at 
least one (1) month prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
3.1.3 Route 3:  
 
The Bidder should be a Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus manufacturer’s representative 
in India. The Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus manufacturer should have manufactured 
a minimum of 01 No. Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus and comply with the standards of 
the country of operation, anywhere in the world. The Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus 
manufacturer should have done the aforesaid requirements at least one (1) 
month prior to the date of techno -commercial bid opening. The Bidder shall 
submit a Letter of Undertaking f or support till the project defect liability period 
from aforesaid manufacturer, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents. 
Notes for Technical Criteria: 
 (i) The bidder under Clause 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 shall submit documents like 
certificate of compliance under Indian Central Motor Vehicle Rules or 
applicable Automotive Safety Assessment, issued by an authorized or an 
accredited testing and certifying agency in India in support of meeting the 
requirements indicated. Additionally, if the bidder is manufacturer’s 
representative, the documentary evidence establishing the aforesaid relation 
of the representative with the Hydrogen Fuel Cell bus manufacturer shall be 
submitted along with the techno-commercial bid. 
 (ii) In Clause 3.1.2 a letter of acceptance for vehicle deployment from MoRTH 
should also be submitted along with the techno-commercial bid. 
 (iii) Representative under Clause 3.1.3 refers to Authorized Service Provider / 
Authorized Distributor/ Authorized Partner/ Authorized Entity / Authorized 
Representative / Authorized Agent of the Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus 
Manufacturer. Documentary evidence establishing the aforesaid relation of  
the representative with the Hydrogen Fuel Cell bus manufacturer shall be 
submitted along with the techno-commercial bid  
 (iv) For meeting the eligibility criteria under Clause 1.3, the bidder shall also submit 
documents from the Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus manufacturer such as the 
certificate of compliance/inspection/registration of the Hydrogen bus model 
issued by an authorized or an  accredited testing and certifying agency of the 
country of operation, anywhere in the world. Make of the bus i.e. name of 
Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus manufacturer should be mentioned in the aforesaid 
documents or additional documents   
 (v) In Clause 3.1.1. and 3.1.2 projects executed by Bidder’s Holding Company 
shall also be considered as Bidder’s experience meeting the QR. In such a 
case, bidder shall submit a letter of support from their Holding Company for 
successful performance of the contract valid up to the  end of defect liability 
period of the contract, as per the format enclosed with the bidding 
documents.  
 (vi) In Clause 1.3 the Bidder can also take support from the Hydrogen Fuel Cell 
Bus manufacturer’s Holding Company. In such a case, bidder shall submit a 
letter of support from Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus manufacturer’s Holding 
Company, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable support for successful execution of the 
contract by the bidder valid up to the end of defect liability period. Within (01) 
one month of intimation about the successful bidding, the bidder shall also 
submit Holding company’s board resolution confirming the irrevocable 
support for successful execution before the award of contract. 
 (vii) In case the award for the reference works has been received by the Bidder 
either directly from the owner of the plant or any other intermediary 
organization, a certificate from such owner of the Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus or 
the intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the Bidder. 
 (viii) The Bidder should be registered in India under the Companies Act 2013 as 
on the date of the techno-commercial bid opening. 
 (ix) All documents mentioned in Clause 3.1.1, 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 along with 
respective Notes shall be submitted with the techno commercial bid, failing 
which the Bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected. 
3.2 FINANCIAL CRITERIA  
 Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
3.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
₹ 7 Crores (Indian Rupees Seven crores only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
 
In case the bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the net worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, 
the bidder would be required to furnish along with its bid, a Letter of Undertaking 
from the Holding Company, supported by the H olding Company’s Board 
Resolution as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract 
by the Bidder in case of award. 
3.2.2 The Net Worth of the Bidder should not be l ess than 100% of the Bidder’s paid-
up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the 
Bidder meets the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Hol ding 
Company wherever applicable, the Net Worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company, in a combined manner should not be 
less than 100% of their total paid up share capital. However, individually, their 
Net Worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capital.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% where X1, X2, X3 
are individual Net Worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective 
paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
3.2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on a 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the 
following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
 
(b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the un-audited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolid ated Annual Report of the 
Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date 
of opening of the Techno -commercial bid are not available, certification of 
financial statements from a practising Chartered Accountant shall also be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
a practising Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited 
results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall 
be considered for  evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit as 
on the date of  Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the 
practising Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
Notes for Financial Criteria: 
 (i) Net Worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of assets, 
write back of depre ciation provisions and amalgamation. Further, any debit 
balance of the Profit & Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from Reserves & Surplus. 
 (ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 (iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act 2013. 
 (iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on 
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall 
be used. 
IMPORTANT GUIDELINES REGARDING TENDER : 
1. 'Class-I and Class-II local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids.  
 
2. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border  with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. However, the said 
requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
3. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for 
Bids/NIT without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.  
 
4. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the GeM Portal (https://gem.gov.in). The Bidder 
would be required to register on the GeM Portal. 
 
5. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security, Power of Attorney & Declaration regarding 
insolvency, bankruptcy and Liquidation . Bid Security and Power of Attorney shall be 
submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the stipulated bid submission 
closing date and time at the address given below.  
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security & power of attorney as mentioned 
above shall be rejected by the employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.   
 
Note: No hard copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
1. Address for communication:  
DGM (RE-CS) / Engineer (RE-CS) 
Contracts Services  
NTPC Limited  
4th Floor, NETRA Building E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida Gautam Budh 
Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
Telephone No. 0120-2356601, 9424140768 
E-Mail: abhishekkumar02@ntpc.co.in / sherooyadav_ngel@ntpc.o.in 
         
        Websites: www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
  