Sl 
No. RFQ Part-I / II/ III
RFQ Sub-Section / Attachment 
/ Form / Annexure Reference 
No.
RFQ T&C / 
Document 
Reference No.
Clause No. Page 
No. Query Description by Applicant Clarification - By NTPC
1 EOI Tender No.  NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 Annexure-A 
I: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
Supply of reheat type sub-critical coal fired Steam Generators in the range of 
150 MWe to 250 MWe with following characteristics- 
1. Main Steam outlet temperature range: 540 to 565 deg. C. 
2. Reheat steam outlet temperature: 565 degC 
3. Co-firing capability, coal note-2 with 10 % to 30% of biomassnote-3 
4. Minimum Boiler & Cycle Efficiency: As per CERC requirements for such 
unit sizes note-4. 
5. Catering to CEA’s flexibilization requirements for load ramping & minimum 
technical load criteria 
10
I: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
Supply of reheat / Non-Reheat type sub-critical coal fired Steam Generators in the range of 90 MW  150 MWe to 
250 MWe with following characteristics- 
1. Main Steam outlet temperature range: 535 540 to 565 deg. C. 
2. Reheat / Non- Reheat steam outlet temperature: 540 565 degC 
3. Co-firing capability, coal note-2 with 10 % to 30% of biomassnote-3 
4. Minimum Boiler & Cycle Efficiency: As per CERC requirements for such unit sizes note-4. 
5. Catering to CEA’s flexibilization requirements for load ramping & minimum technical load criteria
6. Main stem flow of minimum 300 TPH 
The Query is repetative in nature and has already 
been addressed. Applicant to refer the Queries & 
Clarification section publishded with Corrigendum 
no-2
2 EOI Tender No.  NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 Annexure-A 
I: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got 
manufactured, erected/supervised erection, & commissioned/supervised 
commissioning of at least one number of the coal fired reheat type sub-
critical, balanced draft, natural circulation Steam Generator having rated 
capacity of 150 MWe or above which should have been in successful 
operation for a period not less than one (1) year prior to the date of 
publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: In case of a non-Indian company, the applicant should have 
registered in India, either a subsidiary or as a Joint Venture (JV) company 
before the last date of EOI submission.
10
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got manufactured, erected/supervised 
erection, & commissioned/supervised commissioning of at least one number of the coal fired reheat type sub-
critical, balanced draft, natural circulation Steam Generator having rated capacity of 90 MW 150 MWe or above 
which should have been in successful operation for a period not less than one (1) year prior to the date of 
publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: In case of a non-Indian company, the applicant should have registered in India, either a subsidiary or as 
a Joint Venture (JV) company before the last date of EOI submission.
The Query is repetative in nature and has already 
been addressed. Applicant to refer the Queries & 
Clarification section publishded with Corrigendum 
no-2
3 EOI Tender No.  NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 Annexure-A 
II: ADDITIONAL CRITERIA 
The following capabilities towards designing the steam generator for load 
flexibilization are additional for such smaller units - 
1. for Two shift operation, & minimum technical load (MTL) as 25% Note-A. 
2. Capabilities to design pressure parts for creep, fatigue & creep-fatigue 
loading criteria as also per EN-12952-3. 
3. Burners for part-load conditions. 
4. Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU) for such smaller units. 
5. Flue gas re-circulation system design. 
6. Low Pressure Economizer to maximize efficiency gains. 
Remarks:  
1. Note-A: The applicants should propose a design collaborator/technology 
partner who should have successfully provided technical consultancy for 
minimum two (02) coal fired steam generators (of minimum 150 MWe) and 
those plants should have been in successful operation after execution of such 
design 
incorporation for a minimum period of one year.  
2. Bidder may include furthermore proven design features towards improving 
the flexibilization & heat rate of the units. 
10
II: ADDITIONAL CRITERIA 
The following capabilities towards designing the steam generator for load flexibilization are additional for such 
smaller units - 
1. for Two shift operation, & minimum technical load (MTL) as 25% Note-A. 
2. Capabilities to design pressure parts for creep, fatigue & creep-fatigue loading criteria as also per EN-12952-3 . 
( The code is mentioned about CE Certification, as the project is in INDIA IBR guidlines prevails , so this code is 
not applicable for this project. M/s***** will not consider the said code.)
3. Burners for part-load conditions. 
4. Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU) for such smaller units. This is BOHT out item for Boiler manufacturer and  this 
will be based on wtaer quality and same will be incorporated in WTP system if required.
5. Flue gas re-circulation system design - This is not required for M/s***** Cold Cyclone CFBC technology.
6. Low Pressure Economizer to maximize efficiency gains. 
Remarks:  
1. Note-A: The applicants should propose a design G2collaborator/technology partner who should have 
successfully provided technical consultancy for minimum two (02) coal fired steam generators (of minimum 90 150 
MWe) and those plants should have been in successful operation after execution of such design 
incorporation for a minimum period of one year.  
2. Bidder may include furthermore proven design features towards improving the flexibilization & heat rate of the 
units. 
The Query is repetative in nature and has already 
been addressed. Applicant to refer the Queries & 
Clarification section publishded with Corrigendum 
no-2
(CLARIFICATION-03)
4 EOI Tender No.  NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 Annexure-A 
C
Supply of sub-critical steam turbine of tandem compound, condensing, reheat 
type in the range of 150 MW to 250 MW with following characteristics.                                                                                                  
1.Main Steam inlet temperature range: 540 to 565 deg. C.             2.Reheat 
steam inlet temperature: 565 deg C
3.Catering to CEA’s flexibilization requirements for load ramping & minimum 
technical load criteria
14
CATEGORY - 1
The applicant of EOI shall be allowed to have a partnership/tie-up with any foreign Steam Turbine 
Generator OEM who has   designed, engineered, manufactured/got manufactured, erected/supervised erection, 
& commissioned/supervised commissioning of (i) at least one (1) number sub-critical steam turbine of tandem 
compound, condensing, reheat type of 150 MW or higher capacity and (ii) at least one (1) number of generator of 
two pole, Thermal class 155(F) winding insulation, hydrogen / water cooled stator and hydrogen cooled rotor of 
150 MW or above capacity. These steam turbine and generator should have been in successful operation for a 
period of not less than one (1) year prior to the date of publication of this EOI.
 Remarks: In case of a non-Indian company, the applicant should have registered in India, either a subsidiary or as 
a Joint Venture (JV) company before the last date of EOI submission.
I-D
Provision of technology collaboration/ association 
already specified in EOI document. Applicant to 
comply provision of EOI document.
5 EOI Tender No.  NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 General
Regarding the financial information requested in the EOI, we understand the requirement to submit the relevant 
financial data and audited statements. However, we could not identify any specific qualifying criteria such as 
minimum turnover, average turnover requirements, minimum net worth, or similar.
Therefore, we would kindly request your confirmation as to whether the financial statements are being requested 
purely for information purposes, or whether there are or will be any specific financial targets or qualification criteria 
that applicants are expected to meet. This clarification will help us define the most appropriate way to proceed.
Our intention is to participate directly through our Indian subsidiary, which, as an Indian company also has access 
to the same technical references and know-how as our European entity, but naturally, our financial statements 
here in India are smaller compared to the parent company.
1. The financial information requested in EOI is for 
information purpose.
2. Applicant to provide the financial information of 
Organisation/Entity which is applying for EOI.
3. Additionaly, Applicant may also furnish financial 
information of its Technololgy Provider/Parent 
Organisation (if available).
4. Further, the applicant to also refer 
"INFORMATION TO APPLICANT,  Section-I" of 
the published EOI.
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026
Addendum -02 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) FOR IDENTIFICATION OF VENDORS  
FOR DESIGN, MANUFACTURE, SUPPLY, ERECTION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING OF SUB-CRITICAL THERMAL POWER UNITS (150 MW to 250 
MW) SUITABLE FOR TWO-SHIFT OPERATION & MINIMUM TECHNICAL LOAD (MTL) AS 25% 
 
 
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS 
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 
Page 1 of 3 
 
Sl.  
No. 
Specification Reference Existing  Read as  Reason 
Section Page No Clause No    
1 Annexure-A 10 of 31 I-A 
 
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have 
designed, engineered, 
manufactured/got manufactured, 
erected/supervised erection, & 
commissioned/supervised 
commissioning of at least one 
number of the coal fired reheat type 
sub-critical, balanced draft, natural 
circulation Steam Generator having 
rated capacity of 150 MWe or above 
which should have been in 
successful operation for a period 
not less than one (1) year prior to 
the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
 
Remarks: In case of a non-Indian 
company, the applicant should 
have registered in India, either a 
subsidiary or as a Joint Venture 
(JV) company before the last date 
of EOI submission. 
 
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have 
designed, engineered, 
manufactured/got manufactured, 
erected/supervised erection, & 
commissioned/supervised 
commissioning of at least one 
number of the coal fired reheat type 
sub-critical, balanced draft, natural 
circulation/assisted(forced) 
circulation/once-through 
circulation Steam Generator 
having rated capacity of 150 MWe 
or above which should have been in 
successful operation for a period 
not less than one (1) year prior to 
the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: In case of a non-Indian 
company, the applicant should 
have registered in India, either a 
subsidiary or as a Joint Venture 
(JV) company before the last date 
of EOI submission. 
 
 
 
“Assisted(forced) and Once-
through” type circulation 
system also included to 
broaden the technological 
and vendor base, towards 
assessment of the suitable 
technology. 
Addendum -02 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) FOR IDENTIFICATION OF VENDORS  
FOR DESIGN, MANUFACTURE, SUPPLY, ERECTION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING OF SUB-CRITICAL THERMAL POWER UNITS (150 MW to 250 
MW) SUITABLE FOR TWO-SHIFT OPERATION & MINIMUM TECHNICAL LOAD (MTL) AS 25% 
 
 
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS 
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 
Page 2 of 3 
 
Sl.  
No. 
Specification Reference Existing  Read as  Reason 
Section Page No Clause No    
 
2 Annexure-A 10 of 31 I-B 
CATEGORY - 2 
i. The applicant of EOI should be a 
regular Indian manufacturer of coal 
fired steam generators having 
technology 
collaboration/association with the 
applicant as per CATEGORY-1. 
 
ii. The applicant of EOI (in technical 
collaboration with Category-I 
applicant) should have designed, 
engineered, manufactured/got 
manufactured, erected/supervised 
erection, & 
commissioned/supervised 
commissioning of at least one 
number of the coal fired reheat type 
sub-critical, balanced draft, natural 
circulation Steam Generator having 
rated capacity of 150 MWe or above 
which should have been in 
successful operation for a period 
not less than one (1) year prior to 
the date of publication of this EOI. 
CATEGORY - 2 
i. The applicant of EOI should be a 
regular Indian manufacturer of coal 
fired steam generators having 
technology 
collaboration/association with the 
applicant as per CATEGORY-1. 
 
ii. The applicant of EOI (in technical 
collaboration with Category-I 
applicant) should have designed, 
engineered, manufactured/got 
manufactured, erected/supervised 
erection, & 
commissioned/supervised 
commissioning of at least one 
number of the coal fired reheat type 
sub-critical, balanced draft, natural 
circulation/assisted(forced) 
circulation/once-through 
circulation Steam Generator 
having rated capacity of 150 MWe 
or above which should have been in 
successful operation for a period 
 
“Assisted(forced) and Once-
through” type circulation 
system also included to 
broaden the technological and 
vendor base, towards 
assessment of the suitable 
technology. 
Addendum -02 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) FOR IDENTIFICATION OF VENDORS  
FOR DESIGN, MANUFACTURE, SUPPLY, ERECTION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING OF SUB-CRITICAL THERMAL POWER UNITS (150 MW to 250 
MW) SUITABLE FOR TWO-SHIFT OPERATION & MINIMUM TECHNICAL LOAD (MTL) AS 25% 
 
 
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS 
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 
Page 3 of 3 
 
 
Sl.  
No. 
Specification Reference Existing  Read as  Reason 
Section Page No Clause No    
 
Remarks: The applicant should be 
an Indian company. 
not less than one (1) year prior to 
the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: The applicant should be 
an Indian company. 
3 Annexure-3 14 of 31 C-3 
o) having natural 
circulation 
Yes/No 
 
o)-i. having natural 
circulation 
Yes/No 
o)-ii. having 
assisted (forced) 
circulation 
Yes/No 
o)-iii. having once 
through circulation 
Yes/No 
  
Changes incorporated in-line 
with above addendum 
Sl no Clarifications sought NTPC Reply
1 Regarding the requirements, it is not necessary to comply with every item 100%. 
For example, if we do not have a reference operating with coal in a two-shift 
regime, we can instead indicate that we can achieve this point, also indicating 
that we have boilers working in other particular regimes or even biomass 
references operating under similar conditions. Please confirm.
It is understood that the query relates to references with respect to the 
Additional Criteria of Annexure-A of EOI.
1. The applicant to provide a definitive response against the sought 
information based on their capabilities, experiences and future proposed 
tie-ups, as applicable.
2.References pertaining to coal-fired units shall be explicitly furnished, 
wherever available. However, in case references for coal-fired units or coal 
co-firing with biomass are not available, references of 100% biomass-fired 
units may be furnished for information purposes only.
3. In addition, the applicant may also furnish details of its design 
capabilities wrt additional criteria requirements pertaining to coal-fired 
units.
4. Further, the applicant to also refer INFORMATION TO APPLICANT,  
Section-I of the published EOI.
2 The same applies to certain technical requirements such as a Flue Gas 
Recirculation system design or a Low-Pressure Economizer to maximize 
efficiency gains. These features are not part of our standard design; however, we 
can clearly state this and remain open to evaluating them in the future should 
they become a specific project requirement. Please confirm.
Noted. 
The same may be clearly brought out in the EOI response against the 
respective requirements pertaining to Flue Gas Recirculation (FGR)/ Low-
Pressure Economizer (LP Economizer), as applicable.
QUERIES & RESPONSE
EOI FOR IDENTIFICATION OF VENDORS FOR DESIGN, MANUFACTURE, SUPPLY, ERECTION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING OF SUB-CRITICAL THERMAL POWER UNITS 
(150 MW to 250 MW) SUITABLE FOR TWO-SHIFT OPERATION & MINIMUM TECHNICAL LOAD (MTL) AS 25%
3 Regarding the technical solution to be proposed, I would like to confirm with you 
that it is acceptable for us to propose either our Tower-Type boiler design or our 
Two-Pass boiler design, and that the tender does not exclusively require a Two-
Pass configuration. Please confirm.
1. Regarding the technical solution/design for sub-critical units, the 
applicant may explicitly indicate one or more sub-critical unit designs 
demonstrating its capabilities and experience.
2. For each type of unit design proposed, the applicant shall furnish 
relevant references and clearly specify the type of circulation system 
adopted, such as natural circulation, forced circulation, or once-through 
circulation.
3. The applicant may also furnish their operating unit(Coal Fired/Coal-
Biomass fired) references, designed with single auxiliaries (like single 
PA/FD/ID fans, APH etc.)
4 With respect to the deadline, considering that we became aware of this tender 
only a few days ago, we would like to align on the following approach:
Friday, 19 June: We will submit responses within the NTPC template for all 
technical questions that we are able to address by that date.
Friday, 26 June: We will submit the complete template, including both technical 
and non-technical responses.
Friday, 3 July: We will provide all supporting evidence and documentation 
required to substantiate our responses.
Please confirm.
The applicant is requested to furnish the information and responses sought 
in the EOI, to the maximum possible extent, along with relevant details, 
references, and documentary evidence, wherever available, on or before 
the last date prescribed for submission of the EOI.
Supporting evidence/ documents to substantiate the furnished information 
and responses may also be submitted subsequently not later than a week 
time after the last date, if not readily available at the time of EOI 
submission.
5 Please confirm if there is flexibility in the water circulation design.
We have:
-Drum type with natural circulation
-Once-through
In low load <30-33% the once through boiler operates in circulation mode 
typically with a circulation pump.
We also have some examples of drum type with forced/assisted circulation, 
however, this is not relevant for this system.
Applicant to refer clarification at Sl. No.-3 above.
Further, please refer addendum-02 
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026
Corrigendum No. 04 
 
 
NIT No. NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 
Brief NIT Description Identiﬁcation of Vendors for Design, Manufacture, Supply, Erection, 
Testing & Commissioning of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units (150 
MW to 250 MW) Suitable for Two shift operation & Minimum 
Technical Load (MTL) as 25% 
Closing Date 30/06/2026 
Bid Submission End date 30/06/2026 18:00 
Corrigendum No. 03 
 
 
  
NIT No. NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 
Brief NIT Description Identiﬁcation of Vendors for Design, Manufacture, Supply, Erection, 
Testing & Commissioning of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units (150 
MW to 250 MW) Suitable for Two shift operation & Minimum 
Technical Load (MTL) as 25% 
Closing Date 20/06/2026 
Bid Submission End date 20/06/2026 18:00 
CORRIGENDUM BRIEF 
(Instructions/ Information to EOI Applicants) 
 
EOI No. : NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026  
Expression of Interest for “Identiﬁcation of Vendors for Design, Manufacture, Supply, Erection, 
Testing & Commissioning of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units (150 MW to 250 MW) Suitable for Two 
shift operation & Minimum Technical Load (MTL) as 25%. ” 
 
1) An Addendum has been issued incorporating revisions/ changes to the EOI document. 
Applicants/ Vendors are requested to carefully go through the enclosed revised EOI document 
(including revised Annexures, Schedules, and other modiﬁcations). The EOI submission shall be 
made strictly based on the revised EOI document. 
2) Applicants who have already submitted their expression of interest based on existing EOI 
documents are requested to submit the revised EOI applications (as applicable) in line with the 
revised EOI document. 
3) Further, NTPC’s replies to queries and clariﬁcations raised by applicants are also enclosed for 
reference & information of applicants. 
4) Clariﬁcation(s), if any, may be sought through the contact details provided in the EOI document. 
5) Additionally, the last date for submission of EOI has been extended up to 05.06.2026. 
 
Enclosures:  
a) Addendum to EOI document. 
b) Revised EOI document 
c) NTPC replies to qeries and clariﬁcations. 
Addendum - INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) FOR IDENTIFICATION OF VENDORS  
FOR DESIGN, MANUFACTURE, SUPPLY, ERECTION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING OF SUB -CRITICAL THERMAL POWER UNITS (150 MW to 250 
MW) SUITABLE FOR TWO-SHIFT OPERATION & MINIMUM TECHNICAL LOAD (MTL) AS 25% 
 
 
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS 
 
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
 
 
Sl.  
No. 
Specification Reference Existing  Read as  Reason 
Section Page No Clause No    
1 Annexure-A 10 of 27 - Annexure-A Revised Annexure-A  
 
 
 
Sub-critical Steam turbine and 
Generator requirement added. 2 Annexure-2 12 of 27 11 
We confirm that the Steam 
Generator design & further 
activities will follow 
specification requirements as 
well as  Codes and Standard 
as applicable & specified. 
We confirm that the Steam 
Generator, Steam turbine & 
Generator design & further 
activities will follow specification 
requirements as well as Codes and 
Standard as applicable & specified. 
3 Annexure-3 13 of 27 - Annexure-3 Revised Annexure-3 
4 Schedule-3 21 of 27 - Schedule-3 Revised Schedule-3 
5 Schedule-5 25 of 27 - Schedule-5 Revised Schedule-5 
6 Schedule-6 26 of 27 - Schedule-6 Revised Schedule-6 
7 Schedule-4 24 of 27 1 
Details of design interventions 
carried out towards meeting 
the ‘additional criteria’ as per 
Annexure-A. Also add the two 
shift operation & MTL related 
design features in detail as per 
Category-II at Annexure -A.
  
Details of design interventions 
carried out towards meeting the 
‘additional criteria’ as per 
Annexure-A. Also add the two shift 
operation & MTL related design 
features in detail as per Sl no-II at 
Annexure-A.  
 Errata 
 
8 - 3, 5, 9  
Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: achourasia@ntpc.co.in  
 
Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: achourasia@ntpc.co.in, 
pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
Email ids of TG group added.  
9 - 2 of 27 2 
2. Last date for EOI 
submission: 03.05.2026 / 2 
weeks from date of 
publishing, whichever is later. 
Last date for EOI submission: 
Refer above website for last date 
of submission. 
For reference to updated date 
of last date of submission. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 1 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
FOR 
 
IDENTIFICATION OF VENDORS  
 
 
FOR DESIGN, MANUFACTURE, SUPPLY, ERECTION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING  
 
OF 
 
SUB-CRITICAL THERMAL POWER UNITS (150 MW to 250 MW)  
SUITABLE FOR TWO-SHIFT OPERATION & MINIMUM TECHNICAL LOAD 
(MTL) AS 25% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 2 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026      Date: .................  
 
NTPC is Inviting an Expression of Interest for “Identification of Vendors for Design, 
Manufacture, Supply , Erection, Testing & Commissioning  of Sub -Critical Thermal 
Power Units (150 MW to 250 MW) Suitable for Two shift operation & Minimum Technical 
Load (MTL) as 25%. 
 
1.0 Objective: 
(i) NTPC Ltd., invites Expression of Interest from Companies in India for Design, 
Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning of coal fired (including biomass co-
firing) sub-critical thermal power units suitable for two shift operation & Minimum 
Technical Load (MTL) as 25% . This EOI is to identify such interested 
vendors who have  adequate expertise & exper ience in Design, Supply , 
Erection, Testing & Commissioning  of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units  
(mentioned at Annexure-A along with minimum eligibility criteria) suitable 
for Two Shift Operation & Minimum Technical Load (MTL) as 25%. 
(ii) Based on EOI response, NTPC will prepare a database of such capable vendors 
and may explore the possibility of utilizing the services for design, engineering, 
procurement & construction of such thermal power units.  
(iii) Ascertaining capabilities of vendors w.r.t. their Design, Engineering, 
manufacturing, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning  towards providing 
such sub-critical thermal power units having two shift operation & MTL 
capabilities. 
(iv) As per NTPC decision & based on the EOI response, detailed discussions may 
be done with the applicants towards narrowing down on the  ‘technical and  
commercial’ terms and conditions.  
 
 
2.0 DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
1. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost from 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in & https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
2. Last date for EOI submission: Refer above website for last date of submission. 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 3 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
3.0 NTPC encourages submission of EOI in soft copy. For consideration of EOI, Applicants 
are required to e -mail softcopy, completed in all respect, from its official e -mail ID to 
below mentioned e-mail IDs. If applicants also wish to submit hard copy of the EOI, the 
same can be submitted either in person or by registered/ speed post till the last date of 
submission of EOI to the following address: - 
 
To: Deputy General Manager (PE-Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries) 
Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: achourasia@ntpc.co.in, pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
Project Engineering (Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries), 3rd Floor 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
4.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, cancel/withdraw the 
EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, applicant shall 
not have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC bears no responsibility or liability 
of any kind in reference to the EOI. 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 4 of 31                                                                                                       
 
SECTION-I 
 
INFORMATION TO APPLICANT 
 
1. NTPC Limited is a Govt. of India Enterprise. NTPC group produces electricity through 
its cluster of gas, coal, hydro and RE based power stations of more than 89 GW 
capacity spanning across the country. 
 
2. INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
This EOI is to identify interested vendors in India, for supply & installation of sub-critical 
thermal power units offering enhanced efficiency, environmentally compliant 
performance and suitability for two shift operation  & Minimum Technical Load (MTL) . 
As 25% to cater to the contemporary chall enges posed by the operating regime . The 
applicant shall have proven experience, established technical capabilities, and 
sufficient organizational, financial, and execution capa cities to meet the specified 
requirements.  The m inimum eligibility criteria  for participation in the tender are 
mentioned at Annexure-A of this document. 
 
3. THE APPLICANTS SHOULD NOTE THAT: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EOI or any query/clarifications/correspondences 
shall be in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, the Application Form and Annexures given in Section-II 
shall be duly filled out and sent to NTPC by the applicant in a soft copy. 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section-I thoroughly before filling and submitting the 
application form, annexures and schedules in Section-II. 
 
d. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two people, with their 
complete address, phone number and official email id. 
 
e. NTPC Ltd. may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents 
and/ or seek clarifications from the applicant(s) after the deadline for submission of 
response, inter alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities in 
their responses. 
 
f. Based on EOI response, NTPC will prepare a database of capable vendors for 
utilizing the services of design, engineering, procurement & construction of such 
thermal power units. 
 
g. This EOI is indicative only and non-committal. 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 5 of 31                                                                                                       
 
h. For the expression of interest, Applicant shall consider Coal and biomass 
characteristics as per the data provided in Appendix-‘Fuel Characteristics’. 
 
4. ENQUIRIES AND CLARIFICATIONS 
 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via email:  
 
To: Deputy General Manager (PE-Mech/SG & Aux.) 
Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in (for overall EOI related) 
CC to: achourasia@ntpc.co.in (for Boiler & Aux.) , pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in (for TG 
related) 
 
5. CORRIGENDUM 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EOIs, NTPC may, for any reason, 
whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by an applicant, 
modify the EOI document. The amendment will be posted on the website and will be 
binding on all the applicants and the applicant will give due consideration to the same, 
while they submit their EOIs, and would invariably enclose documents/ information, as 
required, on account of the amendment, as a part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its 
discretion, extend the deadline for the submission of EOIs. 
 
 
6. SUBMISSION OF THE RESPONSE TO EOI 
 
The responses to the EOI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail & format:  
To: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: achourasia@ntpc.co.in, pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in  
 
Ref. EOI No.  NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026             Dated: ................. 
 
Submitted to: 
To: Deputy General Manager (PE-Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries) 
Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: achourasia@ntpc.co.in, pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
Project Engineering (Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries), 3rd Floor 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
Submitted by: 
  Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized 
signatory and the same should be reflected in the soft version also. 
 
The responses to the EOI should be submitted within the deadline as mentioned in this 
document.  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 6 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
 
 
7. COSTS AND EXPENSES TOWARDS RESPONSE TO EOI 
 
The applicants shall bear all the costs associated with the complete process including 
preparation of the response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution 
of the documents related with this EOI, regardless of the conduct or outcome of this 
process. 
 
8. CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
The applicants undertake to hold in confidence this EOI and any document related or 
pursuant to this EOI and not to disclose the terms and conditions of the transaction 
contemplated hereby to third parties, except: 
 
(a) To their professional advisors. 
 
(b) To their officers, contractors, employees, agents or representatives, financers, who 
need to have access to such information for the proper performance of their activities 
towards this EOI. 
 
(c) Disclosures required under applicable Law, without the prior written consent of the 
other parties of the concerned agreements. 
 
Provided that the applicant(s) agrees and acknowledges that NTPC may, at any time, 
disclose the terms and conditions of this EOI and any document related or pursuant to 
this EOI to any person, to the extent stipulated under the applicable Law. 
 
 
 
 
 
×××× 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 7 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-II 
APPLICATION FORM, ANNEXURES & SCHEDULES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 8 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
 
Annexure-1 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
  Date:     
Place:     
 
To, 
VIVEK BHARTI 
Deputy General Manager (PE-Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries) 
Project Engineering (Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries), 3rd Floor 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, 
Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
 
Subject: Identification Of Vendors for Design, Manufacture, Supply, Erection, Testing 
& Commissioning of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units ( 150 MW to 250 MW) 
Suitable for Two Shift Operation & Minimum Technical Load (MTL) as 25%. 
 
 
 
Ref.:  EOI No. NTPC/EPC/EOI/SUB-CR/2026,    dated............... 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined and 
understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC, as amended. In token 
of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed & stamped by us and enclosed 
to the response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per the provisions and formats of the EOI,  
without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by 
NTPC LTD. in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EOI  shall be binding 
on us. We hereby expressly waive any and all claims in respect of the EOI process. We 
confirm that there are no litigations or disputes against us, which materially affect our 
ability to participate or function under the obligations with regard to the EOI.
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 9 of 31                                                                                                       
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
Email Id: 
We are enclosing herewith the entire response  containing duly signed formats in  
electronic format sent via email to vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in  
CC to: achourasia@ntpc.co.in, pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in as per the EOI for 
consideration. 
 
5. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of submission  
as stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC, if any. 
 
6. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the requirements 
stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and understanding. We 
would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response. 
 
 
 
 
 
We remain, 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person) 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 10 of 31                                                                                                       
 
Annexure-A 
I: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
S. N. Intended System Description Criteria for Participation 
I-A 
 
Supply of reheat type sub -critical coal 
fired Steam Generators in the range of 
150 MWe to 250 MWe with following 
characteristics- 
1. Main Steam outlet temperature 
range: 540 to 565 deg. C. 
2. Reheat steam outlet temperature: 
565 degC 
3. Co-firing capability, coal note-2 with 10 
% to 30% of biomassnote-3 
4. Minimum Boiler & Cycle Efficiency: 
As per CERC requirements for such 
unit sizes note-4. 
5. Catering to CEA’s flexibilization 
requirements for load ramping & 
minimum technical load criteria note-5. 
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have designed, engineered, 
manufactured/got manufactured, erected/supervised erection, & 
commissioned/supervised commissioning of at least one number of 
the coal fired reheat type sub -critical, balanced draft, natural 
circulation Steam Generator having rated capacity of 150 MWe or 
above which should have been in successful operation for a period 
not less than one (1) year prior to the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: In case of a non -Indian company, the applicant should 
have registered in India, either a subsidiary or a s a Joint Venture 
(JV) company before the last date of EOI submission. 
 
I-B 
CATEGORY - 2 
i. The applicant  of EOI  should be a  regular Indian 
manufacturer of coal fired steam generators having 
technology collaboration/association with the applicant as 
per CATEGORY-1. 
ii. The applicant of EOI (in technical collaboration with 
Category-I applicant) should have  designed, engineered, 
manufactured/got manufactured, erected/supervised 
erection, & commissioned/supervised commissioning of at 
least one number of the coal fired reheat type sub -critical, 
balanced draft, natural circulation Steam Generator having 
rated c apacity of 150 MWe or above which should have 
been in successful operation for a period not less than one 
(1) year prior to the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: The applicant should be an Indian company. 
II: ADDITIONAL CRITERIA 
II Flexibilization Capability 
The following capabilities towards designing the steam generator 
for load flexibilization are additional for such smaller units - 
1. for Two shift operation, & minimum technical load ( MTL) as 
25% Note-A. 
2. Capabilities to design pressure parts for creep, fatigue & creep-
fatigue loading criteria as also per EN-12952-3. 
3. Burners for part-load conditions. 
4. Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU) for such smaller units. 
5. Flue gas re-circulation system design. 
6. Low Pressure Economizer to maximize efficiency gains. 
Remarks:  
1. Note-A: The applicants should propose a design 
collaborator/technology partner who should have successfully 
provided technical consultancy for minimum two (02) coal fired 
steam generators (of minimum 150 MWe) and those plants should 
have been in successful operation after execution of such design 
incorporation for a minimum period of one year.  
2. Bidder may include furthermore proven design features towards 
improving the flexibilization & heat rate of the units. 
Note: 
1. Subscript ‘e’ indicate electrical output in Mega Watts (MW). 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 11 of 31                                                                                                       
 
2. Refer Annexure for coal properties. 
3. As per CEA specified characteristics*. 
4. Refer CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations, 2024*  
5. Refer CEA (Flexible Operation of Coal based Thermal Power Generating Units) Regulations, 2023*  
*Revised from time to time 
Note:  
1. Applicants to submit all the necessary details to support the above criteria. Also, refer the relevant 
schedule appended with the EOI for data requirements. 
 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 12 of 31                                                                                                       
 
III: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
S. N. Intended System 
Description Criteria for Participation 
I-C 
 
Supply of sub-critical steam 
turbine of tandem compound, 
condensing, reheat type in the 
range of 150 MW  to 250 MW  
with following characteristics- 
1. Main Steam inlet 
temperature range: 540 to 
565 deg. C. 
2. Reheat steam inlet 
temperature: 565 deg C 
3. Catering to CEA’s 
flexibilization 
requirements for load 
ramping & minimum 
technical load criteria note-
1. 
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got 
manufactured, erected/supervised erection, & commissioned/supervised 
commissioning of (i) at least one (1) number  sub-critical steam turbine of 
tandem compound, condensing, reheat type of  150 MW or higher capacity and 
(ii) at least one (1) number of generator of two pole, Thermal class 155(F) 
winding insulation, hydrogen / water cooled stator and  hydrogen cooled rotor 
of 150 MW or above capacity. These steam turbine and generator should have 
been in successful operation for a period of not less than  one (1) year prior to 
the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: In case of a non -Indian company, the applicant should have 
registered in India, either a subsidiary or as a Joint Venture (JV) company 
before the last date of EOI submission. 
I-D 
CATEGORY - 2 
i. The applicant of EOI should be an Indian manufacturer of sub-critical steam 
turbine having technology collaboration/association with the applicant 
meeting the requirements mentioned under CATEGORY-1. 
 
Such applicant shall source the generator from any vendor meeting the 
requirements of CATEGORY-1 in reference of generator. 
Remarks: The applicant should be an Indian company. 
IV: ADDITIONAL CRITERIA 
II Flexibilization Capability 
The following capabilities towards designing the steam turbine for load 
flexibilization are additional for such smaller units - 
1. Two shift operation,  Cyclic loading , ramping requirement & minimum 
technical load (MTL) as 25% Note-A. 
2. Capabilities to design LP Turbine last & second last stage blading to handle 
moisture and flow separation. 
3. Capabilities to design Steam turbine Generator & its parts for creep, fatigue 
& creep-fatigue loading criteria. The combined creep fatigue damage shall 
lie within acceptable limits. 
4. No. of designed start stops of the Generator over its entire life to meet the 
requirement of two shift operation, and capability of the Generator to take 
care of the Cyclic loading and ramping requirements. 
Remarks:  
1. Note-A: The applicants should propose a design collaborator/technology 
partner who should have successfully provided technical consultancy for 
minimum two (02) sub-critical steam turbines (of minimum 150 MW) and those 
plants should have been in successful operation after execution of such design 
incorporation for a minimum period of one year.  
2. Bidder may include furthermore proven design features towards improving 
the flexibilization & heat rate of the units. 
Note: 
1.Refer CEA (Flexible Operation of Coal based Thermal Power Generating Units) Regulations, 2023*  
*Revised from time to time 
Note:  
1. Applicants to submit all the necessary details to support the above criteria. Also, refer the relevant 
schedule appended with the EOI for data requirements. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 13 of 31                                                                                                       
 
Annexure-2 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
1. Name of Applicant Company: 
2. Legal status of the Applicant Company: 
3. Brief description of the Company with details of its business groups/subsidiaries/ affiliates: 
4. Date of Incorporation: 
5. Date of Commencement of Business: 
6. Shareholding details:  
7. Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any: 
8. Existing Infrastructure & design facilities – locations, capacity, Complete address. 
9. Documents to be enclosed: 
Technical Credentials –  
a) Supporting document for technology ownership/ licensing details. 
b) Details of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) held, patent filed/held, and MOU/agreement 
signed. 
Financial Credentials –  
a) Copies of Audited Financial Statements (Annual Reports) for preceding five (5) financial 
years as on the date of EOI submission.  
i. Average Annual Turnover for preceding five (5) financial years. 
ii. Net worth for the preceding financial year. 
iii. Paid up Share capital for the preceding financial year. 
 
We confirm that we are interested in Design, Manufacture, Supply, Erection, Testing & 
Commissioning of efficient Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units (150 MW to 250 MW) suitable 
for two shift operation & Minimum Technical Load (MTL) AS 25%.  
10.  We agree that the reference units shall be considered successful based on minimum one -
year completion criteria. We also agree that  the successful completion of the project  to 
establish performance shall be as stipulated by NTPC for respective system (s) / 
equipment(s). 
11. We confirm that the Steam Generator, Steam turbine & Generator design & further activities 
will follow specification requirement s as well as  Codes and Standard as applicable & 
specified. 
 
 
 
(Sign & Company Seal) 
Authorized signatory 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 14 of 31                                                                                                       
 
Annexure-3 
ESSENTIAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT FOR SYSTEM/ EQUIPMENT 
MENTIONED AT ANNEXURE-A 
 
Essential Information: 
  Write Yes/No & provide details with 
attachments. 
S.No. Information/ Details Head Details Additional 
Data 
A Information related to Essential Criteria  
Refer Annexure-
A for Essential 
Criteria (I) 
1 Application Category (Category-1/ 2 as per Annexure-A)   
    
2 
Design & manufacturing capabilities & infrastructure 
owned by the applicant   
 a) Software Tools & Licenses (Name, License validity)   
 
b) Whether the source-codes of the necessary design 
tools/software’s available for boiler, furnace & 
associated system design. 
 
 
 
c) Experience in Pulverized Coal fired Steam 
Generators   
 
d) Experience in Steam Generators other than the 
pulverized coal fired.   
 
e) Experience in bio-mass co-firing with coal  
i. PC Type 
ii. Other Type 
 
 
 
f) Whether the source-codes of the necessary design 
tools/software’s available for Steam Turbine 
Generator & associated system design 
 
 
 
g) Experience in Steam Turbine Generator for Coal 
fired units   
 
h) Experience in Steam Turbine Generator other than 
the coal fired units.   
3 Location of design capabilities/software’s & 
infrastructure facility   
4 
Technical Expertise in the relevant field of essential & 
additional criteria as per Annexure-A   
        a) Experts/ Engineers (with Qualification)   
        b) Experience (in years) of Engineers at 4(a) above   
 
c) Mention specific features for Two shift 
operation & MTL requirements.   
5 Data Security (Policy docs, compliance certificates etc)   
6 
Areas/ Industrial Sectors of successfully completed 
projects   
7A 
(i) Successfully delivered projects in pulverized coal 
(PC) fired thermal power plants (>=150 MW units)   
 
(ii) Successfully delivered projects in other than PC 
fired thermal power plants (>=150MW units)   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 15 of 31                                                                                                       
 
7B 
Indicate primary water circulation type of steam 
generator of units indicated above in sl.no. 7A   
(i.e. Natural, Forced or Once through type) 
 
 
8 Name of Technology Collaborator/Licensor   
9 Manufacturing Details of coal fired steam generators as 
per Category-2   
10 Manufacturing Details of steam turbine generator as per 
Category-2   
11 Scope division between the applicant and Technology 
collaborator.   
12 Mention design collaborator/technology partner: for load 
cycling (Two shift operation & MTL) related design 
requirements (attach credentials of the technology 
company proposed with credentials) 
  
B Information related to additional criteria (Provide 
Yes/No with capability details)  Refer Annexure-
A for additional 
criteria (II) 
 1. Mention & attach specific design features for Two 
shift operation   
 2. Mention & attach specific design features for MTL as 
25%   
 a) Mention the number of cycles, considering 25 
years of life for Two shift operation & MTL 
specified. 
  
 b) Mention Ramp-rates for the unit   
 3. Capabilities to design pressure parts for creep, 
fatigue & creep -fatigue loading  criteria as also per 
EN-12952-3. 
  
 4. Burners for part-load conditions.   
 5. Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU) for such smaller 
units.   
 6. Flue gas re-circulation system design.   
 7. Low Pressure Economizer to maximize efficiency 
gains.   
 8. Mention specific design feature steam turbine Cyclic 
loading, ramping requirement  & minimum technical 
load (MTL) as 25%. 
  
 9. Mention specific design feature of steam turbine LP 
Turbine last & second last stage blading to handle 
moisture and flow separation. 
  
 10. Capabilities to design Steam turbine Generator & its 
parts for creep, fatigue & creep-fatigue loading 
criteria 
  
 11. Capabilities to design the Generator to take care of 
the Cyclic loading and ramping requirements.   
 12. Additional proven design features towards improving 
the flexibilization & heat rate of the units   
 13. Details of the design features with Two shift 
operation & MTL as 25%   
 14. Proposed/ Existing tie-ups with collaborator/ 
technology partner/ reputed expert organization for 
implementation of additional criteria (II) as per 
Annexure-A 
 Provide details wrt 
each sl. no. B (1 to 
13 ) above. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 16 of 31                                                                                                       
 
C Experience Details as per the Annexure-A    
S.No. Information/ Details Head Details Additional Data 
1 Application Category (Category-1/ 2 as per Annexure-A) Category-   
2 Technology Collaborator Name  Specify details in case of 
Category-2 
3 The applicant has at least one no. of unit, which is-  Specify Name of Plant/ 
Unit 
 a) Designed Yes/ No  
 b) Engineered Yes/ No  
 c) Manufactured Yes/ No  
 d) Got Manufactured Yes/ No  
 e) Erected Yes/ No  
 f) Supervised Erection Yes/ No  
 g) Commissioned Yes/ No  
 h) Supervised Commissioned Yes/ No  
 i) coal fired unit Yes/ No Specify coal type, Ash 
content, GCV 
 j) Whether PC fired Yes/ No  
 k) Type of Steam generator, if not PC fired Yes/ No  
 l) having Reheat  Yes/ No  
 m) a sub-critical Unit Yes/ No  
 n) having balanced draft  Yes/ No  
 o) having natural circulation Yes/ No  
 p) of at least 150MW Capacity Yes/ NO Specify Unit capacity in 
MW & its Steaming 
Capacity 
 q) in successful operation for period of at least one year 
prior to the date of EOI publication Yes/ No Specify Commissioning 
date, & successful 
operation years. 
 r) Details as per regular Indian manufacturer of coal fired 
steam generators   
 i. No. of steam generators manufactured   
 ii. Type of steam generators manufactured   
 iii. Fuel Type   
 iv. Steam generators size & capacity   
 v. Other details   
3A Details for Steam Turbine Generator   
3A.1 Description & Name of project  for Steam turbine 
Generator  Specify Name of Plant/ 
Unit 
3A.2 Name of Client with full address, FAX No. & Tel No.   
3A.3 Purchase Order/ Contract No./ LOA No. and Date   
3A.4 Name of Thermal Power Station & Location   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 17 of 31                                                                                                       
 
3A.5 Whether aforesaid Thermal Power station is fossil fuel 
fired   
3A.6 No. of unit(s) of Turbine set supplied to the station   
3A.7 Make of Turbine   
3A.8 Number of cylinders (i) (HP/IP/ Combined HP-IP/LP)  
(ii)   Whether HP and IP  cylinders are combined  or 
separate 
  
3A.9 Module number/description (HP/IP/ Combined HP -IP (if 
applicable)/ LP)   
3A.10 
 
Steam Parameters at turbine inlet 
a. Main steam pressure (kg /cm2 (gauge)) 
b. Main steam Temperature (° C) 
Reheat Steam Temperature (° C) 
  
3A.11 Whether the Turbine Set 
a) is of Reheat type 
b) consists of separate HP, IP and LP cylinders  
(c) is Tandem Compound  
Yes/ No  
3A.12 Rated speed (RPM) and operating frequency range (Hz) 
   
3A.13 No. of Steam Extractions   
3A.14 Capacity in MW of each unit   
3A.15 Condenser Type and Supplier: 
a) Water Cooled 
b) Air Cooled 
c) Design vacuum 
  
3A.16 Whether the scope of work executed for the aforesaid 
Steam Turbine Set included 
a) Design 
b) Engineering 
c) Manufacturing 
d) Erection 
e) Supervising Erection 
f) Commissioning 
g) Supervising Commissioning 
  
3A.17 Steam Turbine Set 
a) Designed by 
b) Engineered by 
c) Manufacture by 
d) Erection by 
e) Supervision of Erection by 
f) Commissioning by 
g) Supervision of Commissioning by 
  
    3A.18 Actual Date of commissioning   
3A.19 Date of commencement of successful operation   
3A.20 Whether Steam Turbine is Tandem Compound or Cross 
Compound.   
3A.21 Whether turbine is directly coupled with Generator   
3A.22 Whether work executed under technology collaboration, 
(yes/no) 
If Yes,  
a. Name of Technology collaborator 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 18 of 31                                                                                                       
 
b. Validity of Technology Transfer Agreement 
(mention Date) 
c. Whether Deed of Joint Undertaking (DJU) with 
Technology collaborator submitted (Yes/No) 
3A.23 Execution Time (in months):   
3A.24 Factory /Works where the Steam turbine equal to 150 MW 
or more was Manufactured, assembled & tested   
3A.25 Factory/works where the offered Steam turbine is 
proposed to be Manufactured, assembled and tested   
3A.26 Certificate from the Owner of the  reference plant that the 
aforesaid Steam Turbine Set is in successful operation for 
a period of not less  than one (1) year prior to the date of 
publication of this EOI, furnished at Annexure.......... to this 
Attachment 
  
3B Details for Generator   
3B.1 Description & Name of project for Generator  Specify Name of 
Plant/ Unit 
3B.2 Name of Client with full address, FAX No. & Tel No.   
3B.3 Purchase Order/ Contract No./ LOA No. and Date   
3B.4 Name of Thermal Power Station & Location   
3B.5 Whether aforesaid Thermal Power station is fossil fuel 
fired Yes/ No  
3B.6 No. of unit(s) of Generator set supplied to the station   
3B.7 Make of Generator   
3B.8 Model No of Generator   
3B.9 MVA rating of Generator   
3B.10  MW rating of Generator   
  3B.11 Rated Voltage of Generator    
3B.12 Cooling Medium (e.g. Water, hydrogen etc) 
 
(i) Stator Core  
(ii) Stator Winding  
(iii) Rotor 
  
3B.13 Number of shaft mounted fans   
3B.14 Thermal Class of Insulation 
 
(i) Stator 
(ii) Rotor 
  
3B.15 Type of Excitation System   
3B.16 Details of Core & Core support system (e.g. Spring type/ 
Rigid type etc.)   
3B.17 No. of designed start/stops of the Generator over its entire 
life to meet the requirement of two shift operation   
3B.18 Whether the scope of work executed for the aforesaid 
Generator Set included 
a) Design 
b) Engineering 
c) Manufacturing 
d) Testing  
e) Erection 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 19 of 31                                                                                                       
 
f) Supervising Erection 
g) Commissioning 
h) Supervising Commissioning 
3B.19 Generator Set 
a) Designed by 
b) Engineered by 
c) Manufacture by 
d) Tested by 
e) Erection by 
f) Supervision of Erection by 
g) Commissioning by 
h) Supervision of Commissioning by 
  
3B.20 Actual Date of commissioning   
3B.21 Date of commencement of successful operation   
3B.22 Factory /Works where the Generator rating equal to  
150 MW or more was Manufactured, assembled & tested   
3B.23 Factory/works where the offered Generator is proposed to 
be Manufactured, assembled and tested   
3B.24 Whether work executed under technology collaboration, 
(yes/no) 
If Yes,  
a. Name of Technology collaborator 
b. Validity of Technology Transfer Agreement 
(mention Date) 
Whether Deed of Joint Undertaking (DJU) with 
Technology collaborator submitted (Yes/No) 
  
3B.25 Execution Time (in months):   
3B.26 Latest/ recent certificate from client that the generator with 
above technical parameters is in successful operation for 
a period of not less than one (1) year prior to the date of 
publication of this EOI (actual time period to be mentioned) 
and caused no serious problem in past, is enclosed at 
Attachment....to this Annexure-3/ C(3B) 
  
3B.27 List of above Generators (with date of supply) already 
manufactured, assembled & tested in the factory/ works 
mentioned at S.No.(3B.22) above is enclosed at 
Attachment....to this Annexure-3/ C(3B) 
  
4-A Credentials for the design collaborator/technology partner 
as per Criteria-II at Annexure-A for ‘for Two shift operation, 
& minimum technical load (MTL) as 25%’’. 
Attached details & Annexures 
 a) Technology/Design Company Name    
 b) Plant details wherein the above Two Shift 
operation & MTL interventions carried out   
 c) Year of interventions & Purchase Order details   
 d) Type of coal fired unit & type of coal details   
 e) Size of coal fired Steam Generator (in MWe)   
 f) No. of years in successful operation   
 g) Number of Cycles considered   
 h) Ramp rate designed & achieved   
 i) MTL designed & achieved   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 20 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 Specify the following details of unit mentioned at sl.no, 
3/3A above   
 a) Superheater Outlet Pr  In ksc-g 
 b) SH Temp.  In deg-C 
 c) RH Temp.  In deg-C 
 d) Steam Generator Efficiency at 100% TMCR and 
55% TMCR   
 e) Aux. Power Cons. %   
 f) Cycle efficiency %   
 g) Whether unit has Condensate Polishing Unit Yes/ No  
 h) Turbine inlet Pressure   
 i) Main Steam Inlet Temp   
 j) IPT inlet Temp (HRH Temp.)   
 k) Steam turbine TG Cycle Heat Rate at 100% TMCR 
and 55% TMCR   
 l) Design vacuum    
6 Whether applicant has experience in providing sub-critical 
units with biomass cofiring capability with coal Yes/ No  Specify type of 
biomass, max. % 
of cofiring by 
wt%, Name of 
plant/ Unit 
7 Max. capacity of coal fired sub-critical Unit  Specify Capacity in MW, 
Steaming Capacity in 
TPH 
 a) designed/ Engineered by self Yes/ No  
 b) Designed/ Engineered in collaboration or under 
technology agreement Yes/ No Specify the 
Designer Name 
 c) No. of sub-cr. Units supplied  Details with MW 
8 Specify range of Steam Parameters (SHO Pr/ SH Temp/ 
RH Temp. , MS Pr/ MS Temp/ HRH Temp ) designed/ 
engineered, supplied by applicant 
  
9 Whether any coal fired unit supplied/ modified by applicant 
is capable meeting the CEA flexibilization ramping 
requirements 
Yes/ No  
 a) Max. ramp rate achieved (%)  Specify plant/ unit 
details 
 b) Minimum Technical Load achieved in %  Specify plant/ unit 
details 
10 Specify design interventions by applicant (self or in 
technology agreement) for making the sub -critical units 
capable of meeting the CEA requirements of flexible units 
specifically the following but not limited to- 
 Specify details 
 a) Header Thickness    
 b) Drum Thickness    
 c) Enhancing Creep-fatigue life of components   
 d) Firing system (mills, burners etc.)   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 21 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
 
Note: 1.  Add additional rows for requisite information. 
2. Any other data pertaining to Steam Generator and Steam turbine & Generator  may also be furnished. 
 
  
 e) Advanced Process control   
 f) HP, IP & LP Rotors and Casings   
 g) Steam Turbine Valves   
 h) Changes in Turbine Control/Governing system   
 i) Exhaust hood spray   
 j) Any other interventions   
D Performance data (100%, 60%, 55%, 40% & 25% of 
TMCR   
 a) Boiler efficiency    
 b) Expected TG Cycle heat rate    
 c) Aux. Power Consumption.    
 d) Cycle efficiency %   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 22 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
SCHEDULES 
 
 
(SCHEDULES ARE TO BE FILLED UP AND SUBMITTED IN MS WORD 
FORMAT. All CREDENTIALS/SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS RELEVANT TO THE 
SCHEDULES ARE TO BE SUBMITTED PREFERABLY IN SINGLE PDF FILE) 
(All the documents are to be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 23 of 31                                                                                                       
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
 
 
Schedule – 1 
 
(Company Profile and Organization Structure)  
 
 
Name of the Company: 
Registered Address: 
 
Contact Person & Designation: 
 
Postal address for communication: 
Telephone No.: 
Fax No.: 
E-mail address: 
 
 
 
 
 
Document regarding Organization Structure and Ownership to be enclosed. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 24 of 31                                                                                                       
 
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
 
Schedule – 2 
(TURNOVER OF THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE FINANCIAL YEARS AND 
NETWORTH OF THE COMPANY) 
 
A) We confirm that annual turnover of M/s. ............................ [Applicant] for the preceding five 
financial years is indicated below:- 
 
Sl. No. Financial Year Turnover amount (In Million Rs.) 
1. 25-26  
2. 24-25  
3. 23-24  
4. 22-23  
5. 21-22  
6. 19-20  
 
B) We confirm that Networth of M/s…………….[Applicant] for the preceding five financial 
years is indicated below:- 
 
Sl. No. Financial Year Networth (In Million Rs.) 
1. 25-26  
2. 24-25  
3. 23-24  
4. 22-23  
5. 21-22  
6. 19-20  
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
EOI_FLEX UNITS                                                                                                                                             Page 25 of 31                                                                                                       
 
We have enclosed Balance Sheets and Profit & Loss account duly certified by Chartered 
Accountant 
 
A) We hereby confirm that net worth of M/s --------- (Applicant) as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year on the date of publication of the EOI is given below:- 
 
Sl. No. Description As on last day of the preceding 
financial year 
1. Paid-up Share Capital  
2. Net worth  
3. % age of Net worth to paid-up Share Capital  
 
Page 26 of 31  
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
 
Schedule – 3 
 
Relevant experience in Design, Engg., Manufacture, Supply, Testing & Commissioning of sub-critical units other than referred 
above in Annexure-3. Provide details of Major projects- 
 
S.N. Name of the project Unit Capacity (MW), 
Steaming Capacity 
(TPH) 
 
Location 
Date of 
award of 
project 
Date of 
Commissioning Boiler & Net Cycle 
Efficiency 
Turbine Cycle 
Heat Rate 
Attach relevant 
docs. In support 
of claim 
         
         
         
 
I. Scope Description Sheet : 
Name of the project [at least one project mentioned above] 
S.N. Scope Whether Yes/ No Attach documents in support  of the claim, provide details  
A Scope of Applicant   
i.  Design   
ii.  Engineering   
iii.  Manufacturer   
iv.  Got Manufactured   
v.  Erection   
vi.  Supervised Erection   
vii.   Type of Steam Generator   
viii.   Fuel Used (Type & Proximate Analysis - FC/ VM/ 
Moisture/ Ash %)   
ix.  Water Circulation Type: Natural/ Forced/ Once-through   
 
Page 27 of 31  
x.  Steam Parameters (SHO Pr./ SH Temp/ RH Temp.)   
xi.   APC %   
xii.   Boiler & Net Cycle Efficiency (%)   
xiii.   Type of Steam Turbine   
xiv.  Steam Parameters (MS Pr./ MS Temp/ HRH Temp.) at 
Turbine inlet   
xv.   TGCHR at 100 & 55% TMCR   
xvi.  Design vacuum   
B Scope of Collaborator/ Technology Provider   
i.  Design   
ii.  Engineering   
iii.  Manufacturer   
iv.  Got Manufactured   
v.   Erection   
vi.   Supervised Erection   
    
C  Contact detail of customer Name: 
 
Address: 
 
 
 
Email:  
 
Phone Number: 
 
Website address: 
 
 
 
Note: Applicant may add details of above & other projects as well, as Attachments. 
 
II. Client certificates or any other certificates 
 
All relevant certificates or documents shall be submitted in pdf. file format. 
 
Page 28 of 31  
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule – 4 
 
1. Details of design interventions carried out towards meeting the ‘additional criteria’ as per Annexure-A. Also add the two 
shift operation & MTL related design features in detail as per Sl no-II at Annexure-A.      
                  
    
 
Sl. 
No 
Name of 
Power Plant 
with location 
No. of Units with 
MW Capacity in 
which intervention 
was implemented 
Objective of 
intervention 
(Documentary 
evidence attached) 
Area for which 
the intervention 
was 
implemented 
(Attach details) 
Major 
Recommendations  
No. of years 
since the 
intervention 
was 
implemented 
Effect of 
Implementation of 
recommendations, 
if available. 
Remarks 
         
         
         
 
 
 
2. Details of Coal Properties & Bio-mass: Ultimate / Proximate Analysis 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 29 of 31  
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
 
Schedule - 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Indicative typical layout drawing of coal fired steam generator & associated 
systems to be attached for reference. 
 
2. Indicative typical layout drawing of steam turbine generator & associated 
systems to be attached for reference. 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 30 of 31  
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule - 6 
 
 
Broad time schedule for executing the minimum 150 MW Sub-Critical Thermal 
Power Unit - 
 
 
S. No. 
 
Activities/Milestone Period in months 
Start Finish 
1. Design & Engineering   
2. Manufacturing   
3. Transportation/Supply   
4. Erection   
5. Commissioning & testing   
6. Operational Start   
7. Any other activity   
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 31 of 31  
 (To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule – 7 
 
Additional Information relevant to the work / assignment to be enclosed: 
 
1. Scope division with details between applicant & technology collaborator. 
2. Prospective technology tie-ups, if willing, with any company as per CATEGORY-1 
(Annexure-A). 
3. Details of additional design features as per ‘Additional Criteria’. 
4. Suggestions for enhancing participation of technologically capable vendors. 
5. Whether design simulation capabilities like FEM (finite element method analysis), 
CFD etc. exist with the applicants. Provide details. 
6. Any other information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX- FUEL CHARACTERISTICS 
(Annexure-IV-2 Standard Coal Characteristics, Annexure-IV-7(A,B,C,D) Biomass Characteristics) 
 

 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 14 OF 21 
 
 
 
3 ASH ANALYSIS             
3.1 Silica (%)   58.52 57.8 60.12 57.3 61.2 
3.2 Alumina (%)   28.17 27.42 28.67 27.1 29.1 
3.3 Iron Oxide (%)   7.2 7.6 6.03 8 5.5 
3.4 Titania   1.68 1.78 1.56 1.86 1.32 
3.5 Phosphoric 
Anhydride (%)   0.6 0.8 0.46 0.82 0.12 
3.6 Lime (%)   1.36 1.7 1.32 1.84 1.05 
3.7 Magnesia (%)   0.74 1.22 0.5 1.28 0.31 
3.8 Sulphuric 
Anhydride (%)   0.2 0.08 0.3 0.08 0.32 
3.9 Sodium Oxide 
(%)   0.3 0.26 0.5 0.12 0.65 
3.1 Balance Alkalies 
(by difference)   1.23 1.34 0.54 1.6 0.43 
  Total   100 100 100 100 100 
4 ASH FUSION 
RANGE             
  REDUCING 
ATMOSPHERE             
4.1 Initial Deformation 
Temp.(oC) 1150 1100 1200 1100 1200 
4.2 Hemispherical Temp. 
(oC) 1300 1250 1350 1250 1350 
4.3 Fusion Temperature 
(oC) 1400 1400 1400 1400 1400 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 16 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(A) 
 
S.N. Technical Data Unit Specifications for Torrefied Pellet 
1. Base Material  Agro residue: 
Which means the leftover portion of the 
agriculture produce such as 
stubble/straw/stalk/husk of those agro residue 
which are surplus and not being used as animal 
fodder such as paddy, soya, arhar, gwar, cotton, 
gram, jawar, bajara, moong, mustard, seasam, til, 
maize, sunflower, jute, coffee etc., groundnut 
shell, coconut shell, castor seed shell etc., pine 
needle, elephant grass, sarkanda and horticulture 
waste such as dry leaves and trimmings 
generated during the maintenance and pruning of 
trees and plants. 
Wood obtained from tree cutting shall not be 
treated as agro residue and shall be not to be 
used as base material or mixing purpose 
whatsoever. 
 
2. Diameter 
 
mm In case of cylindrical shape: 
Diameter: Not more than 35 mm 
Length: Random 
For other shapes: 
No dimension should exceed 35 mm. 
 
3. Fines % (<3 mm) 
(ARB*) 
 
Wt%  
 
4. Gross Calorific 
Value (GCVARB*) 
 
Kcal/Kg Refer below 
 
5. Moisture (ARB*) 
 
Wt% <= 15% (not more than 15%) 
 
6. Bulk density  Kg 3 600 
 
*ARB  As Received Basis 
  
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 17 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(B) 
 
The sample was prepared by torrefying rice straw at 300 deg C with a holding time of one 
hour. Following analysis are carried out at NETRA using the powdered torrefied rice straw 
samples and the results of various testing for the specific sample is tabulated below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 18 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(C) 
     For the Torrefied Rice Straw Pellets (Prepared by torrefaction of rice straw at 300 deg C 
with holding time of 1 hr) tested at NETRA, the test results are as follows: 
 A.      For Anion (ISO 16994:2016 E-Solid Biofuels- Determination of total content of sulphur 
and chlorine)-reported as wt % dry basis 
a.       Chlorine (Cl): 0.32% 
b.       Fluorine (F) : 0.09% 
B.      For Cation (ISO 16967:2015 E-Solid Biofuels- Determination of major elements - 
Reported as wt % dry basis 
a.       Sodium (Na):      0.31% 
b.       Potassium (K):   2.04% 
Note: The above details as at Annexure-IV-7(A), IV-7(B & IV-7(C) are indicative only and 
shall vary based on the exact raw material and its subsequent processing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 19 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(D) 
SPECIFICATIONS FOR NON-TORREFIED BIOMASS PELLETS 
 
S. N.  Technical data Unit Specifications of Non- Torrefied Biomass 
pellets 
1 Base Material  -  Agro residue  
2 Shape and Size  mm  
Cylindrical shape:  
Diameter: Not more than 25 mm   
Length: should not exceed 35 mm.     
3 Fines% (length<3 mm) 
(ARB*) Wt %   
4 Gross Calorific Value       
(GCV-ARB*)   kCal/kg  
Acceptable range  
2800 kCal/Kg to 4000 kCal/kg  
[both inclusive]  
5 Moisture (ARB*) Wt %  Not more than 14%  
Raw Material for pellet 
Manufacturing 
 Base material for pellet manufacturing shall be agro 
residue, which means the leftover portion of the 
agriculture produce, such as 
stubble/straw/stalk/husk of those agro residues 
which are surplus and not being used as animal 
fodder, such as paddy, soya, arhar, gwar, cotton, 
gram, jawar, bajara, moong, mustard, sesame, til, 
maize, sunflower, jute, coffee etc., groundnut shell, 
coconut shell, castor seed shell etc., pine needle, 
elephant grass, sarkanda, bamboo and its by 
product (e.g. Bamboo chips, Cuttings, Bamboo 
Dust etc.) and horticulture waste such as dry leaves 
and trimmings generated during the maintenance 
and pruning of trees and plants.   
 Agro residue-based biomass pellets can be 
manufactured by single base material or mixing 
multiple base materials together.     
 Mixing materials such as by product of woodwork 
factory such as wood chips, saw dust, furniture 
waste etc., bagasse, press mud, molasses or 
natural additives/binder such as lignin, starch, and 
animal dung may also be used with agro residue in 
limited proportion to enhance material properties 
and same shall be explicitly mentioned by supplier 
in consignment details. 
*ARB  As Received Basis 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 20 OF 21 
 
 
 
NON-TORREFIED BIOMASS CHARACTERISTICS 
 
(A) BIOMASS PELLET CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
S.N. Test Parameters Observed   
Results 
Test Method 
1 Proximate analysis   
 Moisture (ADB), % by mass 5.62 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Ash content, % by mass 18.90 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Volatile matter, % by mass 65.95 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Fixed Carbon, % by mass 9.53 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Gross calorific value, kcal/kg 3855 IS: 1350 (P-2) 1970 
Net calorific value, kcal/kg 3601 IS: 1350 (P-2) 1970 
Ignition temperature, ºC 240 ASTM E1491 
Chlorine, % by mass 0.61 ASTM D4208-13 
2 Ultimate analysis   
 Carbon, % 42.08 IS: 1350 (P-4/sec 1) 1974 
Hydrogen, % 4.79 IS: 1350 (P-4/sec 1) 1974 
Nitrogen, % 0.65 IS: 1350 (P-4/sec 2) 1999 
Sulphur, % 0.02 IS: 1350 (P-3) 1969 
Ash, % 18.90 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Moisture (ADB),, % 5.62 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Oxygen, % 27.94 By difference 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 21 OF 21 
 
 
 
(B) ASH ANALYSIS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The above are typical specifications and characteristics of biomass pellet, 
however, same shall vary based on the exact raw material and its subsequent 
processing. 
 
 
 
S. N. Test Parameters Observed 
Results 
Test Method  
1 Chemical composition of ash   IS: 1355- 1984/XRF  
 Silica (as SiO2), % by mass 56.41   
Alumina (as Al2O3), % by mass 1.94 
Iron Oxide (as Fe2O3), % by mass 2.05 
Calcium Oxide (as CaO), % by mass 5.68 
Magnesium Oxide (as MgO), % by mass 5.28 
Sodium Oxide (as Na2O), % by mass 0.11 
Potassium Oxide (as K2O), % by mass 16.58 
Sulphate (as SO3), by mass 2.42 
Chloride (as Cl), % by mass 6.73 
Zinc Oxide (as ZnO), % by mass 0.07 
Manganese Oxide (as MnO), % by mass 0.59 
Phosphate (as P2O5), % by mass 2.04 
2 Ash fusion profile (Oxidizing medium)  
Initial deformation temperature  
Softening temperature 
Hemispherical temperature 
Fusion temperature 
 
1111 
1164 
1184 
1208 
ASTM D1857-16 
3 Ash fusion profile (Reducing medium)  
Initial deformation temperature 
Softening temperature 
Hemispherical temperature 
Fusion temperature 
 
1074 
1022 
1051 
1074 
ASTM D1857-16 
Sl 
No.
EOI Ref. 
No./ NIT 
No.
RFQ T&C / 
Document 
Reference 
No.
Clause No. Page 
No. Query Description by BIDDER NTPC Reply
SG-1
 
NTPC/EPC/E
OI/SB-
CR/2026 
Annexure-A 
I: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
Supply of reheat type sub-critical coal fired Steam Generators in the range of 150 MWe to 250 
MWe with following characteristics- 
1. Main Steam outlet temperature range: 540 to 565 deg. C. 
2. Reheat steam outlet temperature: 565 degC 
3. Co-firing capability, coal note-2 with 10 % to 30% of biomassnote-3 
4. Minimum Boiler & Cycle Efficiency: As per CERC requirements for such unit sizes note-4. 
5. Catering to CEA’s flexibilization requirements for load ramping & minimum technical load 
criteria 
10
I: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
Supply of reheat / Non-Reheat type sub-critical coal fired Steam Generators in the range of 90 MW  150 MWe to 250 
MWe with following characteristics- 
1. Main Steam outlet temperature range: 535 540 to 565 deg. C. 
2. Reheat / Non- Reheat steam outlet temperature: 540 565 degC 
3. Co-firing capability, coal note-2 with 10 % to 30% of biomassnote-3 
4. Minimum Boiler & Cycle Efficiency: As per CERC requirements for such unit sizes note-4. 
5. Catering to CEA’s flexibilization requirements for load ramping & minimum technical load criteria
6. Main stem flow of minimum 300 TPH 
SG-2
 
NTPC/EPC/E
OI/SB-
CR/2026 
Annexure-A 
I: ESSENTIAL CRITERIA  
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got manufactured, 
erected/supervised erection, & commissioned/supervised commissioning of at least one 
number of the coal fired reheat type sub-critical, balanced draft, natural circulation Steam 
Generator having rated capacity of 150 MWe or above which should have been in successful 
operation for a period not less than one (1) year prior to the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: In case of a non-Indian company, the applicant should have registered in India, either 
a subsidiary or as a Joint Venture (JV) company before the last date of EOI submission.
10
CATEGORY - 1 
The applicant of EOI should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got manufactured, erected/supervised erection, & 
commissioned/supervised commissioning of at least one number of the coal fired reheat type sub-critical, balanced draft, 
natural circulation Steam Generator having rated capacity of  90 MW 150 MWe or above which should have been in 
successful operation for a period not less than one (1) year prior to the date of publication of this EOI. 
 
Remarks: In case of a non-Indian company, the applicant should have registered in India, either a subsidiary or as a Joint 
Venture (JV) company before the last date of EOI submission.
SG-3
 
NTPC/EPC/E
OI/SB-
CR/2026 
Annexure-A 
II: ADDITIONAL CRITERIA 
The following capabilities towards designing the steam generator for load flexibilization are 
additional for such smaller units - 
1. for Two shift operation, & minimum technical load (MTL) as 25% Note-A. 
2. Capabilities to design pressure parts for creep, fatigue & creep-fatigue loading criteria as 
also per EN-12952-3. 
3. Burners for part-load conditions. 
4. Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU) for such smaller units. 
5. Flue gas re-circulation system design. 
6. Low Pressure Economizer to maximize efficiency gains. 
Remarks:  
1. Note-A: The applicants should propose a design collaborator/technology partner who should 
have successfully provided technical consultancy for minimum two (02) coal fired steam 
generators (of minimum 150 MWe) and those plants should have been in successful operation 
after execution of such design 
incorporation for a minimum period of one year.  
2. Bidder may include furthermore proven design features towards improving the flexibilization 
& heat rate of the units. 
10
II: ADDITIONAL CRITERIA 
The following capabilities towards designing the steam generator for load flexibilization are additional for such smaller 
units - 
1. for Two shift operation, & minimum technical load (MTL) as 25% Note-A. 
2. Capabilities to design pressure parts for creep, fatigue & creep-fatigue loading criteria as also per EN-12952-3 . ( The 
code is mentioned about CE Certification, as the project is in INDIA IBR guidlines prevails , so this code is not 
applicable for this project. M/s ***** will not consider the said code.)
3. Burners for part-load conditions. 
4. Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU) for such smaller units. This is BOHT out item for Boiler manufacturer and  this 
will be based on wtaer quality and same will be incorporated in WTP system if required.
5. Flue gas re-circulation system design - This is not  required for M/s **** Cold Cyclone CFBC technology.
6. Low Pressure Economizer to maximize efficiency gains. 
Remarks:  
1. Note-A: The applicants should propose a design G2collaborator/technology partner who should have successfully 
provided technical consultancy for minimum two (02) coal fired steam generators (of minimum 90 150 MWe) and those 
plants should have been in successful operation after execution of such design incorporation for a minimum period of one 
year.  
2. Bidder may include furthermore proven design features towards improving the flexibilization & heat rate of the units. 
1) For sl. no. (2), The cyclic loading/creep-fatigue interaction 
criteria may be considered in line with applicable national/ 
international standards/ regulations. Further, the applicant may 
indicate their reference/ guidelines for the said requriement.
2) For sl. no. (4), The applicant shall indicate their existing tie-
ups and/or probable makes/vendors proposed for bought-out 
items associated with the offered system.
3) For sl. no. (5), The requirements are considered adequate 
and sufficiently clear for the purpose of submission for certain 
type of boiler design. However, the applicant may indicate the 
alternate technology, if any, relevant based on their offered 
Steam Generator design/technology.
4) For Remarks: Note-A, Refer NTPC reply against Sl. no. SG-1
SG-4
 
NTPC/EPC/E
OI/SB-
CR/2026 
- - -
Tentative requirements of the number units planned by NTPC and the time line. The projected requirement shall be guided by the overall 
capacity mandate of the country. Further,  the exact 
requirement and implementation details shall be planned by 
NTPC at an appropriate stage.
This EOI is to assess the capability & availability of suitable 
vendors for the intended purpose.
1) The EOI requirements are considered adequate and 
sufficiently clear for the purpose of submission of EOI. 
2) However, the applicants may furnish details of Steam 
Generator/unit specifications based on their relevant 
experience and credentials for information purpose.
CLARIFICATIONS/ QUERY REPLY TO EOI NO. NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026
"Identification of Vendors for Design, Manufacture, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units (150 MW to 250 MW) Suitable for Two shift operation & Minimum Technical Load (MTL) as 25%."
Corrigendum No. 01 
NIT No. NTPC/EPC/EOI/SB-CR/2026 
Brief NIT Description Identification of Vendors for Design, Manufacture, Supply, Erection, 
Testing & Commissioning of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units (150 
MW to 250 MW) Suitable for Two shift operation & Minimum 
Technical Load (MTL) as 25% 
Closing Date 18/05/2026 
Bid Submission End date 18/05/2026 18:00 