 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
NTPC Mining Limited (NML) 
(A wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC Ltd) 
SHARED SERVICES CENTRE – CMHQ-RANCHI 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT. 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT)  
FOR 
Coal Handling Plant Package for Chatti Bariatu Coal Mining Project. 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No. 2026_NTPC_107516_1    Date: 23.04.2026 
1.0 NML invites on -line bids at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website - 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two  Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno -Commercial 
Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid)  from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work 
briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
2.0 Brief Scope of Work: 
The scope of work comprises design, engineering, supply, erection, and commissioning of complete 
Mechanical, Electrical, C&I, Civil and associated structural works of Coal Handling Plant Package for 
Chatti Bariatu Coal Mining Project as per scope detailed in Technical Specifications. 
3.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available at the GePNIC ( e-tender) portal at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the 
Tender is as under:   
IFB No 
Refer NTPC eprocurement portal (Gepnic portal): 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
Issuance of NIT 
Documents Sale Dates & Timings 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any)** 
Pre Bid Conference date & time 
Bid (both Techno -Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
Date & Time for opening of Techno –
Commercial bid  
Date & Time for submission and opening Shall be intimated later 
 
 
of Price bid 
Minimum Amount linked to safety  of the 
cumulative total of Civil + Installation/ 
Erection + Structural Works portion of the 
Contract 
2.50 % 
 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding schedule of 
the Tender. 
 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal of 
NTPC”. 
 
4.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Two 
Crores only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
  
Bidder may submit EMD amount through E -Payment by Credit Card/Debit card/Net Banking on the GePNIC 
(e-tender) portal of NTPC . In case EMD  is not submitted through E payment then Bidder has to furnish the 
same in a sealed envelope separately offline along with  POA and Deed of Joint Undertaking (if applicable) 
by the stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given below in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the bidding documents, failing which, online bid shall be treated as non -responsive 
and shall not be opened.  
 
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE 
EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. 
 
 IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG / THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER 
(EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER 
IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
5.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder  from the e-Tender Portal 
as per specified schedule. The  tender is invited under e -tendering process. The bidders can enroll 
themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class -
3 key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate  
(DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain  DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt.  of India. The e-Tender Portal  also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted  ONLY at the e -Tender 
Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
6.0  Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: Qualifying Requirements is enclosed at Annexure-1 to this NIT 
 
7.0  “Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
8.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in 
the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
9.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
10.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents  and /or submission of Bid  shall not construe that bidder is 
considered qualified. 
 
11.0  NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids (IFB) without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising 
out of such action. 
 
12.0  Address for Communication 
 
SM (C&M) / AGM (C&M) 
Shared Services Centre – Coal Mining HQ 
NTPC Mining Ltd., 
Ram Keshi Heights, 
Plot No. 123, Old AG Colony, Kadru,  
Distt: Ranchi -834002 
Mob.: 9435678000/9650992016 
 
E-mail: utpalborah@ntpc.co.in/ ksudhakar@ntpc.co.in 
 
13.0  Registered Office 
 
NTPC Mining Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area,  
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U10300DL2019GOI354454 
 
14.0 Indenter Detail:  
 
Sh. Mukesh Kumar Barma,  
DY. GENERAL MANAGER, ENGINEERING 
 
Mob: 9650992869 
Email: MUKESHBARMA@NTPC.CO.IN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-1 to NIT 
 
Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 
 In addition to the requirements stipulated in Section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the following shall also 
apply: 
  
1.0 Technical Criteria 
 
1.1 a) Bidder should have designed, manufactured/ got manufactured, erected and 
commissioned at least one number bulk material handling plant (essentially comprising of 
pipe conveyor system) including all associated structural steel works and electrical works 
of pipe conveyor capacity of 800 metric tonnes per hour rated capacity or above for coal/ 
other minerals which should have been in successful operation for at least one (1) year 
prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
   
OR 
 
 b) Bidder who have designed, manufactured/ got manufactured, erected and 
commissioned at least one number bulk material handling plant (essentially comprising of 
troughed conveyor system) including all associated structural steel works and electrical 
works of troughed conveyor capacity of 1000 metric tonnes per hour rated capacity or 
above for coal/ other minerals which should have been in successful operation for at least 
one (1) year prior to the date of Techno -commercial bid opening can also participate 
provided the Bidder collaborates / associates with a design agency who has designed at 
least one number bulk material handling plant (essentially comprising of pipe conveyor 
system) including all associated structural steel works and electrical works of pipe 
conveyor capacity of 800 metric tonnes per hour rated capacity or above for coal/ other 
minerals which should have been in successful operation for at least one (1) year prior to 
the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.   
 
In case where bidder collaborates / associates with a design agency as per para  1.1(b) 
above, the Bidder shall be required to furnish a Letter of support from the  design agency 
for successful performance of the pipe conveyor system of bulk  material handling plant 
valid for a period of five (5) years from date of award or up to  the end of defect liability 
period of the contract whichever is later, as per the format  enclosed with the bidding 
documents. The Letter of support shall be submitted along  with the techno -commercial 
bid, failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected. 
 
NOTES for Cl.1.1a & 1.1b: 
 
(i) The reference work executed by the bidder’s group company/ subsidiary company shall not 
be considered for meeting the qualifying requirements by the bidder. 
(ii) Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided 
the certificate issued by a main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority specifying the 
scope and value of the work executed by the sub -contractor in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
 
 
(iii) The reference work executed by the bidder in a Joint Venture (JV) Consortium shall not be 
considered for meeting the qualifying requirements by the bidder. 
 
2.0 Financial Criteria 
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 11416 Lakh 
(Indian Rupees Eleven Thousand Four Hundred Sixteen Lakh  Only) or in equivalent 
foreign currency. 
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such  Holding Company 
as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event,  the Bidder would be 
required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the 
Holding Company, supported by the Holding    Company’s Board Resolution, as per the 
format enclosed in the bid documents,  pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.2 Net Worth of  the bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the Bidder’s 
paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder 
does not meet the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet  the requirement of Net worth 
based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and / or Holding Company and / or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding Companies wherever applicable, In such a case, however the 
Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and / or Holding Company and / or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 
100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However, individually their Net 
worth should not be less than 75% (seventy -five percent) of their respective paid-up share 
capitals.  
          
Net worth in combined manner shall be    calculated as follows: 
 Net worth (combined)=(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
 
 Where X1, X2, X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification: 
 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company. 
ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statement of the 
Holding Company. 
 
 
 
 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall 
be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating 
that the financial results of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno -
commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
NOTES for clause No 2.0 above 
 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves 
credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to 
the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in the foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior 
to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM FOR LETTER OF SUPPORT 
 
LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM DESIGN AGENCY FOR SUCCESSFUL PERFORMANCE OF THE 
RELEVANT SYSTEM UNDER CLAUSE NO 1.1 (b) OF ANNEXURE-I TO NIT 
COAL HANDLING PLANT PACKAGE OF CHATTI BARIATU COAL MINING PROJECT 
On Design agency Letter Head 
TO: 
NTPC Mining Limited 
Ranchi 
Sub: ………. (Name of the DESIGN AGENCY) undertaking responsibility for successful performance of 
the pipe conveyor system of bulk material handling plant 
Dear Sirs, 
We, M/s ................................. a Company incorporated under the Laws  of.............................having its 
Registered Office at ….................................... (hereinafter called the Design agency associated to “bidder”) 
taking the responsibility for design of  pipe conveyor system of bulk material handling plant as per clause 
no 1.1(b) of Appendix-I to NIT for a period of five (5) years from date of award or up to the end of defect 
liability period of the contract whichever  is later and shall assist in the successful performance of the 
aforesaid system. 
 
We, M/s ................................. (Design agency) are aware that, M/s NTPC Mining Limited (hereinafter 
called the “Employer”) has invited Bids for Coal Handling Plant Package for Chatti Bariatu CMP which 
includes design, engineering, supply, erection, and commissioning of coal handling plant (comprising of 
pipe conveyor system) including all associated structural steel works and electrical works of pipe conveyor 
capacity of 2500 metric tonnes per hour rated capacity. 
 
We are also aware that M/s ..........................., (*Bidder) is submitting its bid proposal in response to the 
aforesaid Invitation for Bid by the Employer for Coal Handling Plant Package for Chatti Bariatu CMP, 
against the Employer's Bid Invitation No. …………………………………. 
AND WHEREAS to meet the qualifying requirement by bidder under clause no 1. 1(b) of Annexure-I to 
NIT, this Letter of Support is being made solely for the purposes of Coal Handling Plant and confirm that 
we are technically assisting the“bidder”. 
 
We, M/s ................................. (Design agency) 
(i) shall be responsible for the design support in meeting the qualification  requirement stipulated at clause 
{1.1 (b) of Appendix - to NIT} for pipe conveyor system of bulk material handling plant & its successful  
performance 
 
 
 
(ii) Now, as on the date of this Letter of Support confirms the manner of achieving the objective set forth 
above shall be as follows: 
For pipe conveyor system of Coal Handling Plant Package for Chatti Bariatu CMP: 
(a) We shall provide and shall be fully responsible for design of pipe conveyor system of Coal Handling 
Plant Package for Chatti Bariatu CMP to meet the performance requirements. 
(b) Pipe conveyor system of Coal Handling Plant Package for Chatti Bariatu CMP shall be manufactured 
and supplied as per above will be of proven design provided/vetted by us and the drawings approved by 
Employer. 
 
(c) We shall promptly carry out all the corrective measures and shall promptly provide corrected  design 
and shall jointly undertake replacements, rectifications or modifications works (with  bidder) to the 
equipment as required in case the equipment fails to demonstrate successful  performance as per contract at 
site. 
(d) We shall participate in Technical Co -ordination meetings (TCMs) from time to time, as and  when 
required by Employer. 
(iii) We, the ( Design Agency) * do hereby undertake and confirm that this Letter of Support shall be valid 
for a period of five (5) years from date of award or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract, 
whichever is later. 
 
Signature of the Authorized Representative:… 
For M/s ………………………………….(Bidder) 
For M/s-------------------------------(Design Agency) 
Name ………………………………… 
Designation ………………………. 
Date:………… 
Common Seal of the Company 
*: Strike off whichever is not applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DESIGN AGENCY EXPERIENCE FOR PIPE CONVEYOR SYSTEM OF BULK MATERIAL 
HANDLING PLANT WRT QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT STIPULATED AT CLAUSE NO 1.1 
(b) OF ANNEXURE-I TO NIT: 
 
 1 
Name and address of the Design Agency*/collaborator*/associate*  
System for which Bidder*/collaborator*/associate* involves the 
design agency 
 
Reference of Experience of design agency in the successful design 
and engineering along with successful performance of pipe conveyor 
system of bulk material handling plant 
 
 
 