 
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited  
(A Joint Venture of NTPC & SAIL) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION  - I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited 
(A Joint Venture of NTPC & SAIL) 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
 R&M of coal mills at Durgapur PP-II (2X60MW) 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Tender ID No: 2026_NSPCL_273894    Date: 16.04.2026 
Bidding Document No: CMCC260017 
1.0 NTPC-SAlL Power Company Limited invites on -line bids on Single Stage 
Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope -I: Techno -Commercial and 
Envelope-II: Price)  from eligible Bidders fo r R&M of coal mills at 
Durgapur PP -II (2X60MW) , as per the scope of work briefly mentioned 
hereinafter.  
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
The scope of work for this R&M work shall include dismantling of existing 
coal Pulverisers (4 nos per unit) and design, engineering, manufacturing, 
inspection and testing at supplier's works, packing , forwarding to site , 
unloading, pre - assembly, assembly, erection, supervision, pre -
commissioning, trial operation, testing and commissioning and performance 
testing of the new Pulverisers and associated system for the scope of 
replacement work of total eight (8) sets of existing Pulverisers for two units 
of NSPCL Durgapur (2X60MW). 
Coal Pulverisers of similar or higher size in the same space as of Existing 
pulverisers and total Eight (8) sets Coal Pulverisers for two boilers of NSPCL 
DURGAPUR (2 x60MW) each is required to replace. Associated 
modification of existing ducting, center feed pipe & Pulveriser discharge 
pipes, integration with existing PF piping and other system modification to 
meet the desired Boiler performance shall be in the bidder's scope. In case 
Bidder is offering higher base capacity of Mill, as compared to existing mill. 
Following shall be the brief scope. 
I. The new Pulverisers shall be designed considering the other existing
equipment & Boiler conditions so that the Boiler performance & safety
aspects should not be effected.
II. Gear Box, Pulveriser Motor, Lube oil System, Pulveriser reject system
& other associated equipments & systems shall be in Bidders scope.
Replacement / desired modification in seal air system, includin g Civil
works, if any, shall be in Bidders scope.
III. Supply of Mandatory spares as per given details.
IV. The existing Pulveriser inlet duct shall be suitably modified to f it in the
existing Layout.
V. Electrical and Instrumentation etc and shifting of the dismantled
materials to the owner's designated storage place / disposal site within
plant premises.
VI. Services like dismantling / repair / overhaul / retrofitting of various other
components / systems / sub -systems as may be required, to ensure
sustained , safe commercial operation, and to meet stipulated design
/ guarantee requirements and to meet the overall objectives of
replacement of Pulveriser.
VII. All the structural works are in the scope of bidder.
VIII. The scope of work also includes erection of the total equipment,
commissioning, trial operation, Performance guarantee testing etc
IX. Dewatering pump of submergible type for each unit to be provided by
bidder of suitable capacity, if required.
3.0 NSPCL intends to finance the aforesaid Package through Domestic Funds / 
Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the 
Bidding Documents, which are available at Government e -procurement 
portal of NIC (GePNIC) at websit e - https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 
and as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB 16.04.2026 
Documents Download Dates 
and Time 16.04.2026 14:00 hrs (IST) 
Last date for receipt of queries 
from bidders (if any) * 24.04.2026 14:00 hrs (IST) 
Pre-bid conference date & time 28.04.2026 11:00 hrs (IST) 
- Shall be conducted through VC on
MS Teams
Bid (both Techno-Commercial 
and Price) receipt date & time 08.05.2026 11:00 hrs (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of 
Envelop-I (Techno-Commercial 
bid) 
09.05.2026 11:00 hrs (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of 
Envelop-II (Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Bid Security/EMD Amount INR 1,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees One 
Crore Only) 
*No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified above.
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 
1,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees one Crore only) in the form as stipulated in 
Bidding Documents. 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY 
SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested 
Bidder from the e -Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is 
invited under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the 
website https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app. The use of Digital Signature 
Certificate (DSC) Class - 3 key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. 
Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. Bidders, if required, can ob tain DSC 
Class-3 key from agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal 
also has the user manuals with detailed guidelines on enrolment and 
participation in the bidding process. 
  No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be 
submitted ONLY at the e -Tender Portal i.e., 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
Qualifying Requirement ( QR) for subject package is  attached as 
Annexure-I. 
8.0  'Class-I local suppliers’ and ‘Class -II local suppliers’ only are eligible to 
participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids. 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as 
specified in the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only 
if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the 
Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer 
of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which 
shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from 
those countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the 
Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to 
another is not permissible. 
 
 
 
 
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not 
construe that bidder is considered qualified. 
 
12.0 NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the 
Invitation for Bids (IFB) for the subject package without assigning any reason 
whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
 
13.0 Address for Communication 
 
HOD (CC&M),  
NTPC SAIL Power Company Limited,  
4th Floor, NBCC Tower,  
15, Bhikaiji Cama Place,  
New Delhl-110066 
Contact: 011-26717379  
e-mail  : sk.babel@nspcl.co.in / hodcnm.cc@nspcl.co.in  
 
 Websites: https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app  or  www.nspcl.co.in  
 
14.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC- SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
4th Floor, NBCC Tower, 
15 Bhikaiji Cama Place, 
New Delhi - 110066 
Corporate Identification Number: U74899DL1999PLC098274,  
Website: www.nspcl.co.in 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M of coal mills at Durgapur PP-II (2X60MW) 
 
BID DOCUMENT NO: CMCC260017 
The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they 
fulfil the following Qualifying Requirements. 
 
1. Technical Criteria 
 
1.1. Route -1 :  Qualified Coal Mill Manufacturer (QCMM) 
 
The Bidder should have designed (either by itself or under collaboration / 
licensing agreement),   manufactured / got manufactured, erected/supervised 
erection and commissioned/supervised commissioning of Vertical Spindle Bowl 
Type Coal Mill of minimum capacity of 24 Ton/hour with Coal pulverizing 
fineness not less than 70% through 200 mesh, Coal input size up to 50 mm, 
Total Moisture in Coal (TM) 12%, Hardgrove Grindability Index (HGI) of input 
Coal 55 , which is in successful op eration in at least one (1) plant for a period 
not less than one (1) year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
Bidder shall offer and supply only the type of the Coal Mill for which it is 
qualified. 
 
                                                     OR 
 
1.2. Route -2 
 
The Bidder should have manufactured at least one Steam generator for Coal 
fired unit of minimum 60 MW or minimum 260 Ton/hour steaming capacity and 
should have supplied Coal pulveriser in this unit which is in successful operation 
in at least one (1) plant for a period not less than one (1) year prior to the date 
of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
 
                                                    OR 
 
1.3. Route-3 : Subsidiary of a QCMM 
 
(i) The Bi dder should be an Indian Subsidiary Company of a QCMM, 
formed for manufacturing and supply of Coal mills in India, having a 
valid collaboration/association/licensing agreement for 
design/engineering, manufacturing of such Coal mills in India  with 
QCMM. Further, in such a case, QCMM should have, directly or 
indirectly through its subsidiary company, at least 26% equity 
participation in the Indian Subsidiary Company, which shall be 
maintained for a lock -in period of seven (7) years from the dat e of 
incorporation of such Subsidiary or up to the end of defect liability period 
of the contract, whichever is later. 
 
(ii) The Bidder shall furnish a Deed of Joint Undertaking (DJU), executed 
by the Bidder and the QCMM, in which the executants of DJU shall be  
jointly and severally liable to the Employer for successful performance 
of the contract, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents. 
The Deed of Joint Undertaking (DJU) shall be submitted along with the 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M of coal mills at Durgapur PP-II (2X60MW) 
 
BID DOCUMENT NO: CMCC260017 
Techno-commercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified 
and its bid shall be rejected.  
 
In case of award, QCMM will be required to furnish an on-demand bank 
guarantee for an amount of 2% of the total contract price, in addition to 
the contract performance security to be furnished by the Bidder. 
 
Bidder shall offer and supply only the type of coal Mill for which its QCMM is 
qualified under Route-1. 
 
 Notes for Clause 1.1 
 
(a) “Qualified Coal Mill Manufacturer (QCMM)” means an entity meeting the 
requirements stipulated at clause 1.1. 
 
(b) Wherever the term ‘Coal fired’ is appearing above, ”Coal” shall be 
deemed to also include bituminous Coal/sub -bituminous coal/brown 
coal/lignite. 
 
(c) In case the reference Mill, based on which the bidder seeks qualification, 
is designed for different parameters (HGI, TM), the Bidder has to submit 
mill capacity Correction curves w.r.t. HGI & TM, approved by the owner 
of the reference plant, to establish that the reference Mill meets the 
qualifying requirement as specified at cl. No 1.1. 
 
(d)  The word “executed/sup plied” shall mean that the bidder should have 
successfully completed work(s) under the contract as required at clause 
1.1 or 1.2 above, even if the total contract is not completed / closed. 
 
2. Financial Criteria 
 
2.1. The average annual turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of Techno - commercial bid opening, should 
not be less than  INR 32.19 Crore (Indian Rupees Thirty -Two Crore and 
Nineteen Lacs Only). 
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated  above 
on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements above, provided that the Net Worth of such 
Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at 
least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding 
Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be requested to furnish 
along with its Techno -Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the 
Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the forma t enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M of coal mills at Durgapur PP-II (2X60MW) 
 
BID DOCUMENT NO: CMCC260017 
unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the execution of the 
Contract by the Bidder in case of award.  
 
2.2.  The Net Worth of the bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial 
year (reckoned on the date of techno -commercial bid opening) should 
not be less than 100% of the Bidder’s paid -up share capital. In case the 
Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its 
Hold ing companies wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidder and 
its subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or subsidiary (ies) of 
the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 
100% of their total paid -up share capital. However in dividually, their Net 
worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid -up share 
capitals.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100  
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Ne t worth which should not be less than 
75%  of the respective paid -up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are 
individual paid up share capitals.  
 
2.3.  In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements 
on standalone entity basis, the un -audited  unconsolidated financial 
statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the 
bidder furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of its 
qualification:  
 
1. Copies of the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder along with copies of the audited consolidated financial 
statements of its Holding Company.  
 
2.  A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the un -audited 
unconsolidated fi nancial statements form part of the Consolidated 
Annual report of the company.  
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of 
techno commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results 
certified by a practicing Cha rtered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results for the three consecutive financial years preceding the 
last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the 
Financial results of the Company are under audit a s on the date of 
Techno commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M of coal mills at Durgapur PP-II (2X60MW) 
 
BID DOCUMENT NO: CMCC260017 
3. Additional Financial Criteria for Collaborator/Associate for Qualification in 
case of Bidder seeking qualification through clause no 1.3 
 
3.1. For Bidder seeking qualification through clause no 1.3 above, the average 
annual turnover of its Collaborator/Associate (meeting requirement of Clause 
1.1 above) in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening, should not be less than Rs. 32.19 Crores  (Indian 
Rupees Thirty-Two Crore and Nineteen Lacs Only) or in equivalent foreign 
currency.  
In case the Collaborator/Associate does not satisfy the average annual turnover 
criteria above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the 
stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. 3.1 above, provided that the net worth 
of such Holding Company, as on the last day of the preceding financial year is 
at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the Collaborator/Associate would be required to furnish along 
with bidder's Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from its Holding 
Company, supported by Board Resolution of the Holding Company, as per the 
format enclosed with the bidding documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support to the Collaborator/Associate to honour the terms 
and conditions of the Deed of Joint Undertaking in case of award of the Contract 
to the Bidder with whom Collaborator/Associate is associated.  
 
3.2. The Net Worth of  Collaborator/Associate, as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening should not be 
less than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid -up share capital. In case the 
Collaborator/Associate does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can 
meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding company wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the 
Collaborator/Associate and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be 
less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) 
of their respective paid up share capitals.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
 Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100  
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
of the respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up 
share capitals.  
 
3.3. In case the Collaborator/Associate is not able to furnish its audited financial 
statements on standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the Collaborator/Associate can be considere d acceptable 
provided the Collaborator/Associate further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Annexure-I To IFB 
 
Qualifying Requirement for R&M of coal mills at Durgapur PP-II (2X60MW) 
 
BID DOCUMENT NO: CMCC260017 
Collaborator/Associate, along with copies of the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Holding Company of Collaborator/Associate. 
(b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company of Collaborator/Associate.  
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of 
Techno Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified 
by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Collaborator/Associate is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of 
three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would 
be required from the CEO/CFO of the Collaborator/Associate as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening 
and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 2 & 3 above: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii)  Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) The figures indicated in 2.1 and 3 .1 are exclusive of Taxes and Duties. If 
required, certificate in support of taxes and duties to be provided from Chartered 
Accountant. 
(iv) “Holding Company”  and “Subsidiary” shall h ave the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India. 
(v) For turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven 
(07) days prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
“Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement (s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L 
Account (wherever applicable) undertaken/  signed  by  a  Member  of  Institute  
of  Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of 
compliance to Qualifying Requirements  (QR),  will  carry  Uni que  Document  
Identification  Number  (UDIN) generated  in  line  with  the  Gazette  Notification  
of  Council  of  Institute  of  Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI) 
 
*** 