 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 SECTION -I 
Design, 
Metering System Modification of Power Supply 
System at CC- SRHQ Office 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
(CORPORATE MATERIALS, NOIDA) 
     
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
 
Metering System Modification of Power Supply System at CC- SRHQ Office  
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No: 9900322913              Date: 21.04.2026  
 
 
1.0 NTPC invites on -line bids at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Single Envelope Basis from eligible 
Bidder for Metering System Modification of Power Supply System at CC - SRHQ 
Office, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
 
Supply, installation and commissioning of 11KV two feeder metering system along with 
metering panel for the Modification work of Power supply arrangement at its Corp. office 
located at Southern regions headquarters (SRHQ) located in Kavadiguda, Secunderabad, 
Telangana state. 
 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per specification and scope defined in the Bidding 
Document for ‘ Metering System Modification of Power Supply System at CC - SRHQ 
Office”. 
 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through (Domestic Funds/Own 
Resources) 
 
4.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at the GePNIC ( e-tender) portal at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under:   
 
Issuance of IFB 21.04.2026 
Documents Sale Dates & Timings From 21.04.2026 
Last date for receipt of queries 
from bidders (if any)** 
- 
Pre Bid Conference date & time - 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and 
Price) receipt date & time 
28.04.2026 
Date & Time for opening of both 
Techno–Commercial & price bid  
29.04.2026 
 SECTION -I 
Metering System Modification of Power 
Supply System at CC- SRHQ Office  INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL 
EMD NIL 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender. 
 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC”. 
 
5.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder  from 
the e -Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The  tender is invited under e -tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on  the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class -3 key is mandatory for e -tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate  (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with 
detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted  ONLY 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: Not Applicable 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that bidder is considered qualified. 
 
12.0  NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
(IFB) without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
 
 
 SECTION -I 
Metering System Modification of Power 
Supply System at CC- SRHQ Office  INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
13.0  Address for Communication 
 
AGM (CM)/ Sr. Manager (CM) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
Contact: 0120-4946529/6559 
 
e-mail: rupeshkumar@ntpc.co.in / deepaverma@ntpc.co.in  
 
Websites:  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in      or 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
 
14.0  Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 