NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT)  
 
FOR 
 
Coal Transportation from Pakri Mines to NKSTPP  
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
Tender Ref. No: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900323433 
 
 
I. NTPC invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-I: 
Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from Eligible Bidders for aforesaid 
package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
II.   Brief Scope of Work: 
Brief Scope of work includes Loading at Mining end, Transport of Coal and Unloading at 
Station end including supervision. 
The detailed scope and description of work covered under this package has been specified in 
relevant clause of Detailed Technical Specification. 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Domestic Commercial Borrowings/Own 
sources. 
 
III. Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the bidding 
document, which are available for examination at our e Procurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule: 
 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group-1, Raipur 
Document Download Commencement 
Date & Time 
Refer details in the tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any) 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission 
 Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 
 Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately 
Cost of Bidding Documents / Tender Fee 
(INR) 
NA 
Bid Security / EMD (INR) Rs. 50,00,000.00 (Rupees Fifty Lakhs only) 
Benefit to MSME Applicable. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Applicable 
Splitting of Quantity Not Applicable.  
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-Commercial Proposal” 
and “Price Proposal” online (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within the bid submission 
date and time as mentioned above.  
 Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
 
IV. All bids must be accompanied by Tender Fee (Cost of Bidding Documents), Bid Security, Power 
of Attorney and Integrity Pact (if applicable).  Integrity Pact (If applicable) shall be accepted by 
the bidder through GTE on e-tender portal. 
Bidders are requested to submit the Bank guarantee in form of e-BG through NeSL Platform 
and physical BG are accepted only when the bidder is not able to submit the e-BG due to 
some practical difficulties or constraints. 
"ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E- BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF 
E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE 
TENDERING PORTAL”.  
e-BG details for bid security 
1 Beneficiary NTPC Limited 
2 Pan Number of the Beneficiary AAACN0255D 
3 Date of Incorporation of the Beneficiary 07.11.1975 
4 Beneficiary Bank IFSC Code SBIN0017313 
5 Account no.  10813608669 
6 Registered Address NTPC Limited, NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7 
Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi -110003 
7 Pin Code 110003 
Note: Bid security in the format of BG should be inline with the NTPC format only (Refer 
Forms and procedures of the tender documents). Any other format shall be liable for 
rejection of bid. 
 
V. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: Applicable  
Refer annexure – I to NIT 
   
VI. Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), 
which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
VII. The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered to 
ascertain the bidder‟s compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). 
The Employer at its discretion may seek any clarification and/or documentary evidence only for 
the reference works as mentioned above. However, no change or substitution of the reference 
works by new/additional plant for conforming to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be 
sought, offered or permitted. 
VIII. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of 
the Employer. 
 
IX. 'Class-I local suppliers with MLC – 50%’  only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined 
in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the 
relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
X. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from  India) having specified Transfer of  Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible 
to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
XI. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the subject 
package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
XII. The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
The Bidder would be required to register on the website.  
First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Users whose email address has 
not been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first time users not allotted any vendor code 
by NTPC, should send a copy of the registration details to the e-mail address specified in this NIT 
under Address for Communication with following details at least three working days prior to 
Technical Opening Date: 
  
i. Request on the letter head of the Company 
ii. Address Proof 
iii. Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
iv. Email ID and Contact No. 
v. Name and Designation of the contact person 
vi. Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank Note:  
No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
XIII. Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be 
qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence 
of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening. 
 
XIV. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
XV. Address for Communication 
 
DGM/ AGM (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515472/0771-2515438 
Email: srikark@ntpc.co.in / monikasagar@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, www.ntpctender.com or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
XVI. Registered Office:  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
  
Annexure – I to NIT  
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS 
 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
1.1 The bidder should have executed the work of “Loading/unloading and transportation by road 
of coal/ overburden/ shale/soil/ minerals/ Ash”  during the preceding seven (7) years reckoned 
from the date of techno- commercial bid opening meeting the following criteria: 
i) The Bidder should have successfully executed the work for a total quantity of 4,00,000 MT in a 
continuous period of Six (6) months in not more than two (2) contracts. 
AND 
ii) The Bidder should have successfully executed the work for a minimum Qty 66667 MT in any 
one (1) month in a single contract. 
 Note: 
A. The word ‘executed’ means that the bidder should have executed the work during last seven (7) 
years as on date of techno-commercial bid opening even if the contract has been started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
B. Reference work(s) executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture/ Consortium /Associate 
can also be considered provided: 
B.1 The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures/ consortium/ 
Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture agreement /consortium agreement / deed 
of joint undertaking and the bidder’s scope of work and break-up of quantities executed by them as 
individual contribution in the joint Venture/Consortium /Associate, duly authenticated by the Project 
Authority/Owner, meet the relevant provisions of eligibility criteria. 
B.2 In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated joint venture 
wherein allocation of scope of work and breakup of quantities between the partners is not clearly 
specified in the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for establishing the eligibility as per 
technical criteria 1.1 of QR, the credit of executed quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the 
ratio of bidder's share in the integrated joint Venture Agreement, provided the applicant establishes 
that it regularly undertakes works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the 
integrated joint venture shall be duly authenticated by the Project Authority/ owner. 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
2.1 The Average Annual Financial Turnover (AATO) of the bidder during preceding three (03) 
consecutive financial years as on the date of techno- commercial bid opening should not be less 
than Rs. 34.80 Crores (INR Thirty-Four Crores and Eighty Lakhs only). 
 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding 
Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements, provided that the Net 
Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal 
to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder 
would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from 
the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid-up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year reckoned from the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening.  
 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirements of 
Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries 
of the Holding Companies, wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the 
Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding 
Companies, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up share capital. 
However individually, their Net worth should not be less  than 75% of their respective paid-up share 
capital. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% (Seventy-five 
percentage) of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share 
capitals. 
2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity basis, 
the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable 
provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the Holding Company. 
2.4 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno- commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall 
be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results of the company are under audit 
as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying financial parameters is not available 
 Notes for Clause 2.0 above: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses 
to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
(iii)“Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 22-Apr-2026 10:18 AM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900323433
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_107428_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Service
Tender Category Services No. of Covers 3
General Technical Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For BOQ No
Is Multi Currency Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online Bankers S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf
BID SECURITY / EMD
DETAILS / VALID UDYAM
CERTIFICATE
.pdf INTEGRITY PACT
.pdf GST DECLARATION
ATTACHMENT-19
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf OTHER DOCUMENTS AS PER
TENDER
.pdf QR RELATED DOCUMENTS
3 Finance .xls Price Bid
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee Exemption Allowed No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 50,00,000 EMD Exemption Allowed Yes
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct EMD Payment in ₹ 0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Coal Transportation from Pakri Mines to NKSTPP
Work Description Coal Transportation from Pakri Mines to NKSTPP
Pre Qualification Details As per tender documents 
Independent External Monitor/Remarks NA 
Show Tender Value in Public Domain Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Serv - Others Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 180 
Location Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Secto Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting Address NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region Head QuartersII
Should Allow NDA Tender No Allow Preferential Bidder No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 22-Apr-2026 12:00 PM Bid Opening Date 14-May-2026 03:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start Date 22-Apr-2026 02:00 PM Document Download / Sale End Date 12-May-2026 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date NA Clarification End Date NA 
Bid Submission Start Date 23-Apr-2026 12:00 PM Bid Submission End Date 12-May-2026 03:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size (in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 232.19
 

Work Item Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size (in KB)
1 Tender Documents PDF.rar Tender documents 16424.61
2 BOQ BOQ_110664.xls Price Bid 387.50
 
 
View GTE Details - Purchase or Service GTE (No Deviation)
S.No Particulars Description Expected Value Mandatory
1.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATION Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. pankajkumar07@ntpc.co.in PANKAJ KUMAR Pankaj Kumar
2. srikark@ntpc.co.in J.V.R.Srikar Kale KALE JAYA VENU RAGAVA SRIKAR
3. sonamjha@ntpc.co.in Sonam Jha Sonam Jha
4. harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in Harsh Mamodia Harsh Mamodia
 
 
GeMARPTS Details
GeMARPTS ID USAJXKLS0QNB
Description COAL TRANSPORTATION
Report Initiated On 31-Dec-2025
Valid Until 30-Jan-2026
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process allowed No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid status Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in Public Domain Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart model Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal places 2
BoQ Comparative Chart Rank Type L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Agree
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name DGM
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By J.V.R.Srikar Kale
Designation DGM
Created Date 21-Apr-2026 10:15 AM
 