 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Terms and Conditions  
(ATC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
  
Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC–CPG1/  9900311576
GEM Bid : GEM/2025/B/7470016
Name of Package: 
1. Additional Terms & Conditions (ATC) of this tender comprises the following documents:
a. Section-I: Invitation for Bids (IFB)/Tender Enquiry/Notice Inviting Tender (NIT).
b. Section-II: Instructions to Bidders (ITB)
c. Section-III: General Conditions of Contract (GCC)
d. Section-IV: Special Conditions of Contract (SCC)
e. Section-V: Technical Specifications and Bid Drawings (Scope of Supply/Service)
f. Section-VI: Schedule of Quantities (SOQ) / Bill of Quantities (BOQ)
g. Section-VII: Forms and Procedures
2. A complete set of documents as mentioned above are enclosed under “Any Other
Documents As Per Specific Requirement of Buyer-1”.
3. Terms and Conditions stipulated in ATC will supersede those in GeM GTC and STC in
case of any conflicting provisions.
4. Bidders are required to submit the documents as mentioned in the check list appended
below while submitting their bid and submit the dully filled check list online on GeM portal.
Formats of the documents required to be submitted as per this check list can be referred
from “Section-VII: Forms and Procedures” enclosed under ‘Instruction to Bidders’ and
‘“Any Other Documents As Per Specific Requirement of Buyer-1”.
5. Instructions for filling the Price Bid:
a. The Bidder is required to quote Lumpsum Price {Including GST) in GeM Bid against
NTPC estimated amount indicated on Section-VI BOQ.
b. The Break-Up of applicable GST is required to be quoted in Attachment-9 as per the
provisions of the bidding documents.
c. Quantity Mentioned "1" in Gem Bid for each item represents Lumpsum-price {i.e.
{(Quantity x Unit Rate) + Quoted GST} for individual line item.
6. MSE Benefits are Applicable for this work. MSE bidders seeking exemption for EMD and
Purchase Preference shall select appropriate option on GeM portal (separately for each
i.e. EMD & purchase preference) and should enclose an attested/self-certified copy of
UDYAM registration certificate, failing which they run the risk of their bid being passed
over as ineligible for the benefits applicable to MSEs.
7. Bidders are advised to mention their prices at the designated place on the GeM portal
only as the same shall only be considered for evaluation and price content mentioned /
uploaded along with any other documents in their bid shall not be considered in any case.
Recently, IP address functionality introduced in GeM portal. The primary objective of this
new feature is to identify collusion activities between sellers by capturing their IP
addresses.
8. ‘During the technical evaluation stage, in case of common IP address (either for Financial
Bid IP Address or Technical Bid IP address or both IP address) of a seller with any other
seller as popped up in a tender by GeM portal, all such bids shall be liable for rejection.
9. Bidder shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their
Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR along with a
certificate regarding verification of authenticity of documents as per the format placed at
Appendix A to Attachment-3A-1 (Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ or Appendix B
to Attachment-3A-1 (Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the bidder
in support of meeting Technical QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/
or specified TPIA.
10. In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA,the verification
and certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the TPIAs as
mentioned at NTPC tender website (https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under “Policy for
Document Authentication Process in Tenders of NTPC Ltd” tab. However, Bidders must
verify the accreditation validity of the designated TPIA before proceeding to engage
them for document certification.
11. The following website may be referred for contact details and accreditation
validity of above mentioned TPIAs:
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/inspection_body/
12. Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is
not certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder as per the format
enclosed with the bidding documents, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the
purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be liable for rejection.
 Bidder’s Basic Information 
1. Name of Agency:
2. Address:
3. PAN No.:
4. NTPC Vendor Code (If Any):
5. Name of Proprietor / Partners / Directors:
a. …………………………………………………………………….
b. …………………………………………………………………….
c. …………………………………………………………………….
d. …………………………………………………………………….
e. …………………………………………………………………….
f. …………………………………………………………………….
6. Dealing Person for this Tender:
a. Name:
b. Mobile No.:
c. Alt. Mobile No.:
7. Mail ID:
Date: 
Place: 
Signature............................................ 
(Name of Authorized person having Power of attorney) 
Designation....................................... 
Common Seal.................................... 
Check List 
Sl. 
No. 
Document Required Action required Submitted   
Please tick 
(√ ) 
1 Attachment 1: Bid Security / EMD (as per ITB 
Clause No. 14.0)-  
 
 
 
 (i) Bank Guarantee, strictly in the format 
provided in the tender document, Amount as 
per NIT, validity as per tender document. 
 
Notes:  
1. Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid 
security in a separate sealed envelope shall be 
rejected by the Employer as being non-
responsive. 
2. The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in 
accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee 
towards Bid Security/EMD/Performance 
security / *Security for the Deed of Joint 
Undertaking (if applicable) / *Advance 
payment (if applicable) included in the 
‘Section-VII: Forms and Procedures’ of NTPC 
Bidding Documents only. In addition, the 
format of the Insurance Surety Bond shall also 
be in accordance with the form of Insurance 
Surety Bond towards Bid security/Performance 
security/ *Security for the Deed of Joint 
Undertaking (if applicable) included in the 
Employer’s Bidding Documents only. 
To be uploaded 
online and Original 
BG to be submitted 
physically 
 
 Or   
 (ii) MSE (UDYAM only) certificate towards 
exemption of Bid Security / EMD. 
To be uploaded 
online 
 
2 Attachment 2: Authority to Sign the bid To be uploaded 
online 
 
3 Attachment 3: Bidder’s Qualifications - Copies 
of Documentary evidence in support of the 
qualification criteria as per ITB Clause No. 5.4. 
To be uploaded 
online duly filled 
in 
 
 Undertaking duly certified and verified 
documents from their Statutory Auditors or 
specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical 
QR. 
To be uploaded 
online duly filled 
in 
 
4 Attachment 5: Equipment/ Machinery deployment 
Schedule  
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
5 Attachment 6: General Declaration of Bidder  To be declared 
through undertaking 
at Attachment 13 
 
6 Attachment 7: Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) 
Authorisation Form  
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
and authenticated 
from the concerned 
bank 
 
7 Attachment 8: Details of PF, ESI, PAN and GSTIN 
Regn  
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
8 Attachment 9: Declaration Regarding GST To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
9 Attachment 10: Technical Compliance To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
10 Attachment 11: Declaration of Local Content To be declared 
through undertaking 
at Attachment 13 
 
11 Attachment 12: Integrity Pact (pre- signed by 
employer)  
To be accepted 
through undertaking 
at Attachment 13 
 
12 Attachment 12A:  Details of Foreign Principals of 
Indian Bidders [if applicable] 
To be uploaded 
online 
 
13 Attachment 13: Undertaking for compliance of 
Important Conditions of Tender 
To be uploaded 
online 
 
14 Schedule of Quantities & Prices i.e. Financial Bid 
(Price Bid) 
To be filled online 
on GeM portal 
only 
 
  
 
Bidder’s Sign & Stamp 
Sl.
No. Part of Bid Documents BIDDER'S QUERY NTPC REPLY
1 Scope of Costing Kindly clarify whether the quoted cost should include:
1. Ambulance along with Driver and EMT (Emergency Medical Technician) for 24×7 
service,
or
2. Ambulance along with Driver only for 24×7 service.
Bid Provisions are clear and shall prevail.
May refer Cl. No. 1 of Scope of Work under Sub-
Head "SCOPE OF WORK".
2 Deployment Model Kindly confirm whether deployment through a subcontractor/partner is permissible, 
while the complete ownership and responsibility for ambulance 
deployment,operations, and service delivery remains with Tata 1mg.
Bid Provisions are clear and shall prevail.
May refer Cl. No. 14 of Scope of Work under Sub-
Head "OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS".
3 EMD Requirement Kindly clarify whether submission of Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) is mandatory for 
this tender. As a company with turnover exceeding INR 50 crore, we canalternatively 
provide a Bank Guarantee, if acceptable. Please confirm if such an exemption or 
substitution is permissible.
Bid Provisions are clear and shall prevail. Refer 
clause 3 of Section-I NIT
EMD (Earnest Money Deposit ) for subject Tender is 
Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakh only) (to
be submitted in form of BG/ISB in the NTPC
format only). EMD Exepmtion is applicable only to 
valid MSE Bidders. Any bid without an acceptable 
Bid Security shall be rejected by Employer as being
non-responsive and shall not be opened.
Amendment-01
Sl.
No. Part of Bid Documents Existing Clause Amended Clause
Scope of Work
 TERMS AND CONDITION OF
ALS AMBULANCE clause-08 
New Clause added  8.Equipment/Instruments & other items as per 
Annexures A, B, C, D are to be made available and 
functional all the time with yearly servicing contract for 
certification basis.
Hiring of Advanced Life Support (ALS) Type-D Ambulance at Jivantika Hospital, MTPS Kanti for a period of 5years.
NIT No.: 9900324115
Pre-Bid Queries












SCOPE OF WORK, TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
Name of Work: Deployment and Operations of Advanced Life Support ( ALS) Ambulance for a 
period of 5 years at Jivantika Hospital MTPS Kanti. 
SCOPE OF WORK: 
1. Deployment and Operation of Advance Life Support (ALS) Ambulance as per Ambulance 
Code AIS- 125 of brand new , in white colour, air-conditioned (TEMP 18-25° C), BS-VI 
compliant, tubeless tyres, manufactured and fabricated as per Ambulance Code AIS-125 only 
along with equipment as per Ambulance code AIS-125 for ambulance of “ category-D”, 
consumables, fuel and manpower. The manpower to be available for 24 X 7 @ 8 hrs shift basis 
to carry and manage serious patients as and when required. They should work as per directions 
of the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) / Medical Officer In-Charge (MO I/C) / Engineer-in-Charge 
(EIC) or authorized representative, MTPS, Kanti. 
Manpower Requirement: 
 
Designation Manpower Category 
EMT 3 No’s  Skilled (SW)  
Medical Attendant  3 No’s  Semi-Skilled (SSW)  
Driver 3 No’s  Semi-Skilled (SSW)  
 
Note: 
 
1. 1 No. Reliever will be provided for 3 EMT’s 
2. 1 No. Reliever will be provided for 3 No’s Medical Attendant  
3. 1 No. Reliever will be provided for 3 Ambulance Drivers 
4. Total manpower mentioned is for 3 shifts- 24X7  
 
TERMS AND CONDITION OF ALS AMBULANCE: 
Advance Life Support (ALS) Ambulance: 
1. Advance Life Support (ALS) Ambulance of make Force traveller trauma or equivalent, 
Model -2026 or later (brand New), 3350- WB (8+d+1p, 54151x1975wx2550h) with power 
Steering, 16 V, DOHC, VGT, Dual Mass Fly Wheel in white colour, air-conditioned, BS-
VI compliant, tubeless tyres, manufactured and Fabricated as per Ambulance Code AIS-125 
only with 3-way siren & light, mike and operating system along with equipment as per AIS-
125 (Part-2), consumables, fuel (HSD) and manpower. i.e., Drivers, Emergency Medical 
Technicians & Medical Attendants.  
2. ‘Ambulance' should be written on front and back of the vehicle with fluorescent red colour 
stickers and ambulance logo in blue colour sticker.  
3. NTPC MTPS, Kanti name in Hindi/regional language and English should also be written 
on both side of the vehicle along with NTPC logo in bold letters.  
4. ALS ambulance shall be stationed in hospital for 24x7 and move to attend /transport 
patients as per the direction of the CMO of the hospital.  
5. Equipment/instruments & Other items to be made available and functional all the time. 
6. GPS enabled real time position tracker along with the software to track the same to be provided 
by the agency to the EIC/CMO. 
7. A total of 12 manpower (3+1 Drivers, 3+1 EMTs and 3+1 Medical Attendants) shall be 
deployed for 8-hour shifts as per relevant labour laws in which the three will be in shift and one 
will be reliever who will also be paid as per labour law. These manpower should undergo 
refresher course every year for equipment functioning and first aid which will be arranged and 
borne by the vendor. 
8. Equipment/Instruments & other items as per Annexures A, B, C, D are to be made available 
and functional all the time with yearly servicing contract for certification basis. 
 
 
A. Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) For ALS Ambulance (3+1 EMT): 
1. Emergency medical tech. should have certificate in Emergency Medical Technician advance 
through recognized institute of “Healthcare Sector Skill Council of India” (HSSC) or any 
other government recognized institute with minimum one-year experience in Emergency 
Services. 
2. Ambulance services are associated with human life. Therefore, emergency medical 
technicians must have full Experience, Knowledge/Trained for operation of all the equipment 
in ALS ambulance. 
3. They should attend the patients in emergency and also associate with ambulance for safe pick 
and drop including shifting of patients in/out of the ambulance at site/hospital while 
transportation and as per instructions of CMO/medical officer in-charge/ engineer in-charge 
or authorized executive of the project hospital. 
4. They should also assist Doctors/Staff Nurses on duty for better management of the patients 
in emergency as well as in stabilization center and to work in rural health camps/dispensary 
outside of the hospital as per instructions of above authorities. 
5. Knowledge of Hindi, English and local language may be preferred for deployment of 
manpower 
6. They should be medically fit, healthy and free from any communicable diseases. 
7. They should be well behaved, disciplined and ready to work in shift on rotational basis as pre 
direction of the EIC/CMO of the Jivantika Hospital, MTPS, Kanti. They should report at 
duty/workplace in uniform provided by the vendor before 15 minutes as per their duty 
schedule. 
8. They must maintain duty attendance register for Drivers, Medical Attendants and themselves 
per day as provided by the Vendor. They should produce the same to the EIC/CMO every day 
in the morning hours for verification. 
9. As the ambulance services are connected to human life, all the Emergency Medical 
Technicians must be ready to move for outstation duties at any time on the instructions of 
EIC/CMO of the Jivantika Hospital, MTPS for quick and fast services as and when required. 
10. They should be ready to work in shift on rotational basis as per direction of the EIC/CMO of 
Jivantika Hospital, MTPS, Kanti. 
11. All wages payable to EMT shall be processed through the CLIMS in accordance with 
applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
12. They should be ready to work in any section of hospital or any other job assigned to them on 
the instructions of the EIC/CMO. 
 
 
B. Medical Attendants for ALS Ambulance (03+1 Attendant):- 
1. Medical Attendants for ALS ambulances should have certificate in Dresser Cum First-Aider 
(DCFA) from Government-recognized institute like “Indian Red Cross Society” or “St. 
John’s Ambulance, or any other Government recognized institute with minimum one-year 
experience. 
2. They should work on ambulance and also assist Doctors, Staff Nurses on duty for better 
management of the patients in emergency as well as in stabilization center and also to perform 
duty in rural camps/dispensary outside of hospital as per instructions of the EIC/CMO of the 
Project Hospital. 
3. They should associate with ambulance for safe pick and drop including shifting of patients 
in/out of the ambulance at Site/Hospital while transportation and as per instructions of 
EIC/CMO of the Project Hospital. 
4. To work in any section of Project Hospital as per requirement. 
5. To maintain records of the section where they are deployed. 
6. Knowledge of Hindi, English and local language may be preferred for deployment of 
manpower. 
7. They should be medically fit, healthy and free from any communicable diseases. 
8. They should be well behaved, disciplined and ready to work in shift on rotational basis as pre 
direction of the EIC/CMO of the Project Hospital. They should report at duty/work place in 
uniform provided by the Vendor before 15 minutes as per their duty schedule. 
9. All the medical attendants must be ready to move for outstation duties at any time on the 
instructions of EIC/CMO. 
10. All wages payable to Medical Attendant shall be processed through the CLIMS in accordance 
with applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
11. They should be ready to work in any section of hospital or any other job assigned to them on 
the instructions of the EIC/CMO. 
 
C. Drivers for ALS Ambulances (03+1 Drivers):- 
1. Drivers of ALS ambulances should have minimum one-year experience of Heavy Motor 
Vehicle/Ambulance driving and valid HMV (commercial) Driving License, which should be 
renewed from time to time. Drivers must have full knowledge of Hindi/Local language, 
locations from where they pick and drop the sick and serious patients. They should also be 
literate to read the traffic signs and rules. They should be fully capable to fill Vehicle Logbook 
in proper way without cutting and overwriting. 
2. They should be well behaved, disciplined and report at duty place in uniform provided by the 
Agency before 15 minutes as per their duty schedule. They must produce vehicle logbook per 
day as provided by the Agency to get sign/verified by the EIC/CMO every day in the morning 
hrs. 
3. As the ambulance services are connected to human life, all the drivers must be ready to move 
for outstation duties at any time on the instructions of EIC/CMO of the Project Hospital for 
quick and fast services as and when required. 
4. They should be responsible for safe pick & drop including shifting of patients in/out of the 
ambulance at site/hospital while transportation. 
5. They should be ready to work in shift on rotational basis as per instruction of the EIC/CMO 
of the Hospital. 
6. They should be medically fit, healthy, and free from any communicable diseases. Contracting 
agency must get their medical examination done once in a year during the contract period at 
their own cost. 
7. They should be ready to work in Rural Health Camp/Dispensary outside of the hospital as per 
instruction of the EIC/CMO. 
8. All wages payable to drivers shall be processed through the CLIMS in accordance with 
applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
9. They should be ready to work in any section of hospital or any other job assigned to them on 
the instructions of the EIC/CMO. 
 
 
OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
1. Vendor has to deploy 24x7 basis ambulance along with equipment, fuel (HSD), consumables 
and manpower as per scope of work, manufacturer fabricated only, brand new (not operated 
earlier),  2026 or later model: Air Conditioned, GPS compliant, white colour Force Traveller 
Trauma 3350-wb (9+d+1p) or equivalent, Power Steering, Dual Mass Fly Wheel, BS-VI 
compliant and tubeless tyres model with 3-way siren light, mike & operating system for 
Advance Life Support Ambulance. 
2. Operational cost of ambulance for lubricants, tubeless tyres, normal wear & tear including 
accidental maintenance, manpower, equipment maintenance, consumables, legal 
compliances, insurance of vehicles & manpower and any other directly & indirectly charges 
related to vehicles and manpower etc. shall have to be borne by the contracting vendor. 
3. Looking into road safety, vehicle head lights & fog lights bulbs, siren light bulbs, indicators 
lights bulbs shall be replaced immediately if found defective. Ambulance tyres shall also be 
changed immediately, if rubber grip of single or all tyres become smooth, on the instructions 
of the EIC/CMO. Noncompliance shall be treated the ambulance absent in whole shift and an 
amount Rs. 5000/- shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
4. The ambulance must be maintained properly throughout the contract period with decent 
upholstery like curtains, seats leather seat covers etc. Curtains and seat covers are to be 
cleaned regularly at an interval of 15 days or earlier if dirty, whereas the same may be replaced 
immediately if found rotten. Noncompliance shall be deducted Rs. 100/- per day from the 
R.A. Bill/s of the agency. 
5. Deployment of qualified and professionally trained manpower on ambulance round the clock 
i.e. one Emergency Medical Technician (EMT), one Medical Attendant (M.A.) & One Driver 
in each shift of 8 hours is essential on Advance Life Support Ambulance. 
6. Vendor has to keep reserve work force for ambulance shift rotation and leave. Being 
emergency services, Non-deployment of drivers in any shift on ambulance shall be treated 
whole shift of particular ambulance as absent and an amount Rs. 5000/- shall be deducted 
from the RA bill/s of the vendor against such absence. Non-deployment of emergency medical 
technician or medical attendant staff on ambulance in any shift shall be treated as absent. In 
such cases an amount Rs. 1000/- per manpower per shift shall be deducted from the RA bill/s 
of the Vendor. 
7. EIC/CMO is the final authority to remove any manpower without any notice/reason to the 
vendor if work of particular manpower is found un-satisfactory. Vendor must replace such 
manpower immediately. Non-compliance of the same shall be treated as ALS ambulance 
absent shift in case of driver and Rs. 5000/- shall be deducted for the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor 
in this account whereas Rs. 1000/- shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor against 
other manpower. 
8. All expenses towards salary, uniform, repair and maintenance of ambulance and 
equipment/instruments, consumables including medicines/drugs in the First Aid/ Rescue Kit, 
Fuel (HSD), lubricants, damages due to accident, comprehensive insurance, road tax, 
Pollution Under Control certificate, income tax, GST or any other taxes including parking 
charges, ambulance fitness, vehicle & deployed manpower insurance, mobile phone, medical 
expenses of manpower, room rent, legal compliances etc. not mentioned herein shall also be 
arranged and borne by the vendor. 
9. It is the sole responsibility of the vendor to keep full tank of Fuel (HSD) every time. The 
operational cost for fuel for 1000 KM per month will be part of the overall operational 
expense. The extra kilometres run by the ambulance beyond 1000 KM will be reimbursed on 
the actual Kilometres run divided by 10 (considering the ambulance runs 10 kilometres per 
litre of Diesel) multiplied by the price of one litre of HSD/ Diesel in that month. Fuel used or 
KM run for fuel refilling or other ambulance works will be borne by vendor as part of vehicle 
maintenance. 
10. All the relevant documents pertaining to statutory compliance shall be submitted to the 
EIC/CMO. Any penalty imposed by any authority on this account shall be borne by the 
agency.  
11. Vehicle should comply strictly with provision of pollution control in line with the decisions 
of Supreme Court/NGT from time to time and should comply with statutory regulations issued 
from time to time in this regard. Non-compliance shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of 
the agency @ Rs. 500/- per day. 
12. It is compulsory to provide Pre/Postpaid cell phone (mobile) on ALS ambulance. Mobile 
number to be informed to the EIC/CMO. Vendor has to provide the same on their own cost 
& risk. Rs. 100/- per day shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor against non-
compliance. 
13. Ambulance may have to perform outstation duties also on the instructions of the EIC/CMO 
for which no extra charges will be paid i.e. for overstay, night stay, manpower TA/DA and 
any other charges. 
14. Ambulance deployed should be owned and registered with the RTO by and in the name of 
the vendor only. No vehicle shall be allowed to be sold/mortgaged or sub-let during the entire 
contract period. In case of any violation, shall have full right to short-close the contract 
without any notice by forfeiting the entire EMD/ SD etc. of the vendor. NTPC reserves full 
right to short-close the contract without any notices/reasons by forfeiting the entire EMD/ SD 
etc. of the vendor. 
15. Periodic maintenance at an interval of every three months with prior approval of the EIC is 
essential for which 12-16 hours leave may be given and the vendor has to provide a substitute 
ambulance for the same period. Maintenance Certificate from Vehicle’s Authorized Service 
Station has to be submitted after each service/maintenance. No payment shall be paid to the 
agency for this activity by NTPC. Penalty @ Rs. 10000/- shall be imposed for non-compliance 
of each service. However, grace period for 15 days will be allowed for any unforeseen 
circumstances. 
16. AMC/ Warranty of the medical equipment & instruments installed in ALS ambulance is 
mandatory for the durations of the contract. Repair in case of breakdown has to be ensured 
within 36 hours and Non-Compliance shall be penalized @ Rs. 1000/- per day per 
equipment/instrument after 36 hours and shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor. 
Similarly, consumables shall be re-filled within 24 hours otherwise Rs. 500/- shall be 
deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor after 24 hours @ per day per consumable. 
17. Vendor has to provide 2 sets of uniform per year to deployed manpower i.e. Navy blue 
trousers (pant) and sky blue shirts to drivers, white trousers (pant) and white shirts to 
Emergency Medical Technicians and navy blue trousers (pant) and white shirts to Medical 
Attendants in first month for which no extra payment shall be paid by the NTPC to the vendor. 
Penalty Rs. 50/- per person per day shall be imposed for non-compliance which shall be 
deducted from RA bill/s of the vendor. 
18. Contractor has to pay minimum wages to deployed manpower to Drivers and Medical 
Attendants for SSW, Emergency Medical Technicians for SW. The Agency/ contractor shall 
ensure that the manpower engaged are not paid less than the minimum wages as admissible 
and notified by appropriate government from time to time (Central/State Govt. Minimum 
Wages whichever is higher). Whenever there is any increase in minimum wages as notified 
by appropriate government, the Agency/ contractor shall make payment of such increment 
along with related statutory compliance. 
19. The wage period is considered from 26 th of a month to 25 th of next month. Vendor must pay 
minimum wages latest by 2 nd day through bank of each month for previous month. Non-
compliance shall be imposed Rs.100/- per person per day after 2 nd day of the month. All 
payments to the manpower engaged in the contract will be made to their bank account through 
online payment. The contractor shall ensure timely payments to all the persons deployed 
under this contract through bank only and shall not link the same with receipt of payments 
from NTPC, MTPS against monthly RA Bills. Non-compliance of this clause shall be 
reflected in the performance feedback report of the contractor & penalized as per the 
discretion of EIC/CMO, NTPC, MTPS. 
20. Vendor has to provide copies of Pay Slips, Bank Deposit Slips, PF deposit slips/challans for 
HR clearance along with the monthly RA bills for release of payment to the vendor. 
21. Vendor shall follow compulsorily the rules of PF act and deposit the PF against each deployed 
manpower. Penalty of Rs. 1000/- shall be imposed per man per month against non-compliance 
which shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
22. Prior to deployment of manpower, vendor should take Group Insurance/ESI/WC Policy of 
their manpower as per norms at their own cost per year basis or for entire contract period. Rs. 
5000/- per month against non-compliance shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
In cases where ESIC may not be applicable, insurance under WC Act shall be obtained. 
23. Vendor has to keep Rs. 5000/- cash to the Emergency Medical Tech. on duty from the first 
day of the date of start of the contract till complete execution of the contract for minor 
maintenance/fuel (HSD) requirement/toll and parking charges etc. in emergencies. Non-
compliance shall be imposed with penalty of Rs. 100/- per day which shall be deducted from 
R.A. Bill/s of the vendor.  
24. In case failure to complete the contract and performance of the vehicle and compliance to the 
contractual provision is/are found unsatisfactory, the contract may be terminated by short 
closure by NTPC without any notice forthwith and Security Deposit/CPG, EMD, pending 
bill/s etc. shall be forfeited. No compensation shall be paid for un-utilised portion of the 
contract period. 
25. All payment shall be released on completion of a month after receiving proper bill/s from the 
contractor in the prescribed proforma along with supporting documents as may be needed 
from time to time. 
26. In case of non-availability of the vehicle for minor/major breakdown, an alternative vehicle 
shall be arranged immediately. However, the deployment of alternative vehicle shall be 
allowed subject to fitness, road worthiness and proper documents of vehicle as agreed in 
contract. 
27. If the agency designates or hires a Supervisor/Power of Attorney/Team Leader person, the 
agency shall ensure that the individual has no prior history of misbehavior or misconduct in 
any contracts/services. Any individual determined to be unsuitable shall be removed from the 
role and replaced immediately by the NTPC Management. 
28. NTPC shall not be liable to provide either accommodation or garage facilities to the vendor 
or their employees. However, as a case of ambulance, shared type accommodation in 
township/transit campsite may be provided on commercial rent as per NTPC norms subject 
to availability. 
29. Vendor has to provide the list of all workers containing name, age, sex, and address with thana 
of each and every worker along with photograph duly verified by the village/town authority 
within a month of deployment of workers. 
30. Vendor has to arrange medical facilities to all their deployed workers at their own cost. NTPC 
shall not be held responsible to provide such facilities. Also, no reimbursement shall be 
applicable in this account. 
31. Vendor and their employees shall not at any time cause or permit any nuisance or damage to 
properties on the site and township and/ or do anything which shall cause unnecessary 
disturbance or inconvenience to the patients, hospital, residents or anyone. Doing so, they 
shall be penalized on the discretion of the NTPC hospital and HR authorities. 
32. Duty roster of the workers are very important and shall be provided by the vendor on the last 
working day of the month for the succeeding month in the office of the EIC/CMO. Rs. 100/- 
per day shall be deducted through R.A. Bill/s of the vendor against non-compliance. 
33. Contractor has to maintain the following records and provide to the EIC/CMO for verification 
of following records: 
a. Attendance Register 
b. Employment Card 
c. Register of Wages 
d. Wage Slip 
e. Register of Deductions for Damage or Loss 
f. Register of Fines 
g. Comprehensive Insurance of Workmen 
h. Employees’ Provident Fund 
i. PF Challan 
j. Register of Workmen Deployed 
k. Insurance Coverage 
l. Any other Records as per NTPC norms/ Statutory requirement. 
 
34. The Agency shall ensure that all the manpower engaged in the contract must be covered by 
PMJJBY & PMSBY schemes within one month of award of the said contract. The 
reimbursement may be made to the agency subject to production of documentary evidence. 
As per scheme of PMJJBY & PMSBY, the coverage cycle is 1st June to 30th  May every year. 
Accordingly, policy shall be arranged by the agency. Penalty of Rs. 100/- per month each 
manpower against non-compliance shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
35. All mandatory requirements such as Identity Cards for each Employee, Verification of 
Character and Antecedent by Police, Fitness Certificate, etc. to be followed by Agency. 
36. All wages payable to deployed manpower shall be processed through the CLIMS in 
accordance with applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
37. The Agency shall provide all the Safety Equipment and related PPEs (Safety Helmet, Safety 
Shoes, Safety Reflective Jacket etc.) as per requirement, according to their working conditions 
/ work requirements at their own cost. All Safety precautions with respect to the engaged 
manpower shall solely be the responsibility of the Agency. The Agency shall comply with the 
instructions given by the Safety Department of NTPC-MTPS. If PPE requirement increases 
due to rearrangement of workers or change of workers, the extra cost of PPEs shall be in the 
scope of Agency. 
38. If any contractor worker found working without using the Safety equipment like Safety 
Helmet, Safety Shoes, Safety Belts/Reflecting Jacket etc. the CMO/ EIC / Deputed Officer or 
his representative /Safety Officer of NTPC shall have the right to penalize the contractor up 
to Rs.1000/-per person per day and such worker shall be sent out immediately and shall not 
be allowed to work on that day. CMO/ EIC / Deputed Officer or his representative /Safety 
officer of NTPC will also issue a notice in this regard to the contractor. 
39. Contractor shall undertake to fully comply with the terms and conditions of this agreement 
and perform the jobs so assigned to the entire satisfaction of NTPC. In the event of failure to 
do so, NTPC shall have the Right to Terminate the contract and take action as per the 
provisions of the bidding document, contract agreement and NTPC GCC. 
40. The Agency shall be fully responsible for compliance of all statutory liabilities as it is 
applicable to such type of works. In no case the MTPS shall be hold responsible monetarily 
or otherwise for violation of such rules by the contractor.  
41. After completion of the contract period, the contractor is responsible for the PF amount 
settlement to the workmen within the one month from the date of completion. After settlement 
of PF and all other dues from the contractor to the workmen, then only the security deposit of 
the contractor will be released by NTPC. 
42. In case of revision of Minimum Wages (and other applicable Statutory Components) by 
Statutory Authority with concurrent or retrospective effect, the Agency will have to pay the 
arrears as well as normal monthly wages (and other applicable Statutory Components) at 
revised rate to his labours for the tenure of the contract. Accordingly, the Agency must ensure 
the payment of minimum wages (and other applicable statutory components compliance) as 
per revised minimum wage after submission of proof of payment on revised rate of wages. 
NTPC will pay the Wage escalation to Agency as per actual (difference in minimum wages 
+ statutory components). 
43. Termination of Contract: The contract can be terminated on the following conditions: 
a. Subletting of contract, bankruptcy etc. 
b. If the contractor leaves the work during the period of the contract. 
c. If the contractor is not able to cope up with the work assigned to him or does not 
engage sufficient suitable workers or the work has to be done or through outside 
agency frequently causing the dislocation of work. 
d. If the contractor acts in contravention of the Terms & Conditions of the contracts. 
e. The contract may be terminated by NTPC by giving 15 days advance notice to the 
Agency. But, if the agency desires to terminate the contract, the Agency shall have to 
give a written notice in three (03) months advance to the NTPC management, but such 
termination will be done at risk & cost of the Agency and the security deposit shall be 
forfeited. 
f. In case of any misconduct/indiscipline/Non-performance/unsatisfactory performance 
or any other reason what-so-ever as per contract terms of the contractor, the EIC/CMO 
reserves the full right to terminate the contract at once without giving any reason 
thereof by serving 15 days’ notice. 
g. The performance of the Agency will be reviewed by the management of NTPC/MTPS 
after each month, and if found unsatisfactory, the contract shall be terminated at any 
point of time without assigning any reason to the Agency and the security deposit shall 
be liable to be forfeited. 
h. Non-compliance with the statutory provisions/acts for the payment of salary to the 
staff shall be viewed seriously and contract will be terminated. 
i. NTPC further reserves the Right of terminate the contract at any time after giving 15 
days’ Advance Notice in writing as deemed necessary and the contractor shall have 
no claim whatsoever on this account.  
44. Engineer-in-Charge (EIC) will be CMO (Medical) or their Authorized Representative. 
45. SD will be deducted as per NTPC norms. 
46. All other Terms and Conditions shall be as per NTPC GCC. 
47. Date of vehicle deployment i.e. date of start will be 11.05.2026 or as communicated by 
EIC/CMO. However, successful bidders must be ready to deploy their vehicle within 60 days 
from the date of receipt of LOI/ Award letter which ever earlier. Delay in deployment of 
vehicle shall be penalize to agency @ RS. 1000/-per day, which will be deducted from R.A. 
Bill/s or SD/EMD. 
48. Contract shall be valid for a period of 60 months from the date of operation certified by 
EIC/CMO with provision of extension for 3 months at the discretion of NTPC on the 
same rate, terms and conditions on mutual consent. 
49. Payment terms & conditions: 
a. Payment shall be made for the hiring services of Ambulances on the monthly basis for the 
services rendered in preceding month as per the contract after submission of monthly bills. 
b. Fuel charges shall be reimbursed for the KMs run beyond 1000KM considering mileage 
@ 10KMPL, during the preceding month with the prevailing rate at nearby fuel filling 
station. 
c. Toll taxes/parking charges as per actuals shall be reimbursed on documentary evidence 
along with RA bills. 
50. Penalty clause is applicable as mentioned in terms & conditions for different services. 
51. Defect liability period: Nil. 
52. Amount linked to Safety: 2%. 
 BILL OF QUANTITY
SL NO DESCRIPTION UNIT
RATE( inclusive of
GST@0%) QUANTITY
AMOUNT(inclusive of
GST@0%)
10 DEPLOY. OF ALS AMBULANCE-TYPE-D
10.10
Hiring Charges-ALS Ambulance along with Manpower and 
fuel as detailed in Scope of Work. MONTH ₹ 4,10,400.00 60 ₹ 2,46,24,000.00
GRAND TOTAL ₹ 2,46,24,000.00
NOTES
Approval for Hiring of Advanced Life Support (ALS) Type-D Ambulance at Jivantika Hospital MTPS Kanti for 5 years
Bidder has to quote the total package cost (incl. of GST ) in GEM Price Bid for subject NIT  as per Scope of Work for 60 months.
Bidder must check the total package cost wrto to the estimated amount before the Bid submission on
GEM.
As the subject work pertains to deployment of Ambulance which comes under GST Exemption thus the
GST % considered is NIL. However, Bidders are requested to indicate the applicable GST% in Attachment 09.
 
Bid Number: GEM/2026/B/7470016
Dated: 06-05-2026
Bid Corrigendum
GEM/2026/B/7470016-C3
Following terms and conditions supersede all existing “Buyer added Bid Specific Terms and conditions” given in
the bid document or any previous corrigendum. Prospective bidders are advised to bid as per following Terms
and Conditions:
Buyer Added Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions
1. Buyer Added text based ATC clauses
 
NTPC LIMITED
(A Government of India Enterprise)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Terms and Conditions
1 / 9
(ATC)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT
 
 
Name of Package: Hiring of Advanced Life Support (ALS) Type-D Ambulance at 
Jivantika Hospital MTPS Kanti for 5 years
 
 
1.    Additional Terms & Conditions (ATC) of this tender comprises the following documents:
a.    Section-I: Invitation for Bids (IFB)/Tender Enquiry/Notice Inviting Tender (NIT).
b.    Section-II: Instructions to Bidders (ITB)
c.     Section-III: General Conditions of Contract (GCC)
d.    Section-IV: Special Conditions of Contract (SCC)
e.    Section-V: Technical Specifications and Bid Drawings (Scope of Supply/Service)
f.      Section-VI: Schedule of Quantities (SOQ) / Bill of Quantities (BOQ)
g.    Section-VII: Forms and Procedures
 
2.    A complete set of documents as mentioned above are enclosed under “Any Other Docum
ents As Per Specific Requirement of Buyer-1”.
 
3.    Terms and Conditions stipulated in ATC will supersede those in GeM GTC and STC in case of any conf
licting provisions.
 
4.    Bidders are required to submit the documents as mentioned in the check list appended below while s
ubmitting their bid and submit the dully filled check list online on GeM portal.
 
Formats of the documents required to be submitted as per this check list can be referred from “Secti
on-VII: Forms and Procedures” enclosed under ‘Instruction to Bidders’ and ‘“Any Other Documents
As Per Specific Requirement of Buyer-1”.
 
2 / 9
Recently, IP address functionality introduced in GeM portal. The primary objective of this new feat
ure is to identify collusion activities between sellers by capturing their IP addresses.
 
 
5.    Instructions for filling the Price Bid:
a.    The Bidder is required to quote Lumpsum Price {Including GST) in GeM Bid against NTPC estimated amou
nt indicated on Section-VI BOQ.
b.    The Break-Up of applicable GST is required to be quoted in Attachment-9 as per the provisions of the biddi
ng documents.
c.     Quantity Mentioned "1" in Gem Bid for each item represents Lumpsum-price {i.e. {(Quantity x Unit Rate) 
+ Quoted GST} for individual line item.
 
6.    MSE Beneﬁts are Applicable for this work. MSE bidders seeking exemption for EMD and Purchase Pref
erence shall select appropriate option on GeM portal (separately for each i.e. EMD & purchase prefer
ence) and should enclose an attested/self-certiﬁed copy of UDYAM registration certiﬁcate, failing whi
ch they run the risk of their bid being passed over as ineligible for the benefits applicable to MSEs.
 
7.    Bidders are advised to mention their prices at the designated place on the GeM portal only as the sa
me shall only be considered for evaluation and price content mentioned / uploaded along with any ot
her documents in their bid shall not be considered in any case.
8.    ‘During the technical evaluation stage, in case of common IP address (either for Financial Bid IP Addr
ess or Technical Bid IP address or both IP address) of a seller with any other seller as popped up in a 
tender by GeM portal, all such bids shall be outrightly rejected.
9.    Bidder shall be required to submit duly certiﬁed and veriﬁed documents from their Statutory Auditors
or speciﬁed TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR along with a certiﬁcate regarding veriﬁcation of 
authenticity of documents as per the format placed at Appendix A to Attachment-3A-1 (Undertaking f
rom Statutory Auditor) and/ or Appendix B
to Attachment-3A-1 (Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the bidder in support o
f meeting Technical QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.
10.  In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the verification and certificat
ion of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the TPIAs as mentioned at NTPC tender we
bsite (https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under “Policy for Document Authentication Process in Tenders o
f NTPC Ltd” tab. However, Bidders must verify the accreditation validity of the designated TPIA befor
e proceeding to engage
them for document certification.
11.  The following website may be referred for contact details and accreditation
validity of above mentioned TPIAs:
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/inspection_body/
12.  Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not certiﬁed
by speciﬁed TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder as per the format enclosed with the bidding docu
ments, shall not be considered veriﬁed/ certiﬁed for the purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be li
able for rejection.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 / 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                            Bidder’s Basic Information
 
 
1. Name of Agency:
 
2. Address:
 
3. PAN No.:
4 / 9
 
4. NTPC Vendor Code (If Any):
 
5. Name of Proprietor / Partners / Directors:
a. …………………………………………………………………….
b. …………………………………………………………………….
c. …………………………………………………………………….
d. …………………………………………………………………….
e. …………………………………………………………………….
f. …………………………………………………………………….
 
 
6. Dealing Person for this Tender:
 
a. Name:
b. Mobile No.:
c. Alt. Mobile No.:
 
 
7. Mail ID:
 
 
Date:
Place:
 
Signature............................................
(Name of Authorized person having Power of attorney)
Designation.......................................
Common Seal....................................
 
Check List
Sl. N
o.
Document Required
Action required
Submitted   
Please tick (
√ )
5 / 9
1 Attachment 1: Bid Security / EMD (as per ITB 
Clause No. 14.0)-
 
 
 
 
(i) Bank Guarantee, strictly in the format pro
vided in the tender document, Amount as pe
r NIT, validity as per tender document.
 
Notes:
1.    Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid
security in a separate sealed envelope shall b
e rejected by the Employer as being non-resp
onsive.
2.    The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in a
ccordance with the form of Bank Guarantee to
wards Bid Security/EMD/Performance security 
/ *Security for the Deed of Joint Undertaking (if
applicable) / *Advance payment (if applicable)
included in the ‘Section-VII: Forms and Proced
ures’ of NTPC Bidding Documents only. In addi
tion, the format of the Insurance Surety Bond 
shall also be in accordance with the form of In
surance Surety Bond towards Bid security/Perf
ormance security/ *Security for the Deed of Joi
nt Undertaking (if applicable) included in the E
mployer’s Bidding Documents only.
To be uploaded onlin
e and Original BG to 
be submitted physica
lly
 
 Or
  
 (ii) MSE (UDYAM only) certiﬁcate towards ex
emption of Bid Security / EMD. To be uploaded onl
ine
 
2 Attachment 2: Authority to Sign the bid
To be uploaded onl
ine
 
3 Attachment 3: Bidder’s Qualifications - Copies
of Documentary evidence in support of the q
ualification criteria as per ITB Clause No. 5.4.
To be uploaded onl
ine duly filled in
 
 Undertaking duly certified and verified docum
ents from their Statutory Auditors or speciﬁe
d TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR.
To be uploaded onl
ine duly filled in
 
4 Attachment 5: Equipment/ Machinery deployment S
chedule To be uploaded onlin
e duly filled in
 
5 Attachment 6: General Declaration of Bidder
To be declared throu
gh undertaking at Att
achment 13
 
6 Attachment 7: Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) Autho
risation Form To be uploaded onlin
e duly filled in and au
thenticated from the 
concerned bank
 
6 / 9
7 Attachment 8: Details of PF, ESI, PAN and GSTIN Re
gn
To be uploaded onlin
e duly filled in
 
8 Attachment 9: Declaration Regarding GST
To be uploaded onlin
e duly filled in
 
9 Attachment 10: Technical Compliance
To be uploaded onlin
e duly filled in
 
10 Attachment 11: Declaration of Local Content
To be declared throu
gh undertaking at Att
achment 13
 
11 Attachment 12: Integrity Pact (pre-signed by 
employer) To be accepted throu
gh undertaking at Att
achment 13
 
12 Attachment 12A:  Details of Foreign Principals of In
dian Bidders [if applicable] To be uploaded onlin
e
 
13 Attachment 13: Undertaking for compliance o
f Important Conditions of Tender To be uploaded onl
ine
 
14 Schedule of Quantities & Prices i.e. Financial 
Bid (Price Bid) To be filled online 
on GeM portal only
 
 
 
Bidder’s Sign & Stamp
Hiring of Advanced Life Support (ALS) Type-D Ambulance at Jivantika Ho
spital, MTPS Kanti for a period of 5years.
NIT No.: 9900324115
Pre-Bid Queries
Sl.
No.
Part of Bid Docu
ments BIDDER'S QUERY NTPC REPLY
1 Scope of Costing Kindly clarify whether the q
uoted cost should include:
1. Ambulance along with Driver 
and EMT (Emergency Medical T
echnician) for 24×7 service,
or
2. Ambulance along with Driver 
only for 24×7 service.
Bid Provisions ar
e clear and shall 
prevail.
May refer Cl. No.
1 of Scope of Wo
rk under Sub-He
ad "SCOPE OF W
ORK".
2 Deployment Mod
el
Kindly confirm whether deploy
ment through a subcontractor/p
artner is permissible, while the 
complete ownership and respon
sibility for ambulance deployme
nt, operations, and service deliv
ery remains with Tata 1mg.
Bid Provisions ar
e clear and shall 
prevail.
May refer Cl. No.
14 of Scope of W
ork under Sub-H
ead "OTHER TER
MS AND CONDITI
ONS".
7 / 9
3 EMD Requiremen
t
Kindly clarify whether submissi
on of Earnest Money Deposit (E
MD) is mandatory for this tende
r. As a company with turnover e
xceeding INR 50 crore, we can 
alternatively provide a Bank Gu
arantee, if acceptable. Please c
onfirm if such an exemption or 
substitution is permissible.
Bid Provisions ar
e clear and shall 
prevail. Refer cla
use 3 of Section-
I NIT
EMD (Earnest Mo
ney Deposit) for 
subject Tender is
Rs. 2,00,000/- (R
upees Two Lakh 
only) (to
be submitted in f
orm of BG/ISB in 
the NTPC
format only). EM
D Exemption is a
pplicable only to 
valid MSE Bidder
s. Any bid withou
t an acceptable 
Bid Security shal
l be rejected by 
Employer as bein
g
non-responsive a
nd shall not be o
pened.
Amendment-01
Sl.
No.
Part of Bid Docu
ments Existing Clause Amended Clause
1. Scope of Work
 TERMS AND COND
ITION OF
ALS AMBULANCE cl
ause-08
New Clause added 8. Equipment/Instr
uments & other ite
ms as per Annexur
es A, B, C, D are to
be made available 
and functional all t
he time with yearly
servicing contract f
or certification basi
s. Annexures are at
tached in ATC.pdf.
 
 
.
2. Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file.
Disclaimer
The Additional Terms and Conditions (ATC) have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of their
Competent Authority. The Buyer ,is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its
outcome, and consequences thereof including any restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs
and including the modification of technical specifications and / or terms and conditions governing the bid.All
representations / grievances pertaining to the ATC clauses shall be raised with the buyer organization directly
and not with GeM.If any of the clause(s) is/are incorporated by the Buyer regarding the following, the bid &
8 / 9
resultant contract shall be treated as null & void. Further, GeM reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to cancel
the bid forthwith, without issuance of any prior notice or intimation :-
1. Publishing Custom / BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available (unless such
Custom / BOQ item is bunched with the major regular product Category Item).
2. Mandating procurement of / from specific Brand / Make / Model / Manufacturer / Dealer except in case of
Single Bid / Proprietary Article Certificate (PAC) Buying.
3. Inclusion of disqualification criteria related to suspension of seller / service provider, where such
suspension period has already expired.
4. Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders.
5. Publishing bids on GeM for procurement of works.
6. Procurement of Goods by creating a Service bid on GeM & vice-versa.
7. Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. However, trial / sample, as
the case may be, shall be permitted in cases where trial / sample are allowed as per approved and
published procurement policy of the Buyers’ controlling Ministry / Department / State / Public Sector
Enterprises Headquarters. If there is any violation of trial / sample clause with regard to approved policy
of the Buyers’ Ministry / Department / State / Public Sector Enterprises Headquarters, then this is to be
determined and redressed by the concerned Buyer Organisation only.
8. Seeking experience from specific organization / department / institute only or from foreign / export
experience.
9. Creating bid for items from incorrect categories.
10. Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses.
11. Asking for any Tender fee / Bid Participation fee, as the case may be.
12. Buyer added ATC Clauses which are in contravention of clauses defined in bid detail section, including
specifications, EMD Detail, ePBG Detail and MII and MSE Purchase Preference sections of the bid, unless
otherwise allowed by the applicable GeM GTC.
13. Any ATC clause in contravention with GeM GTC Clause 4 (xiii) (h) will be invalid. In case of multiple L1
bidders against a service bid, the buyer shall place the Contract by selection of a bidder amongst the L-1
bidders through a Random Algorithm executed by GeM system.
14. In a category based bid, adding additional items, through buyer added, additional scope of work/
additional terms and conditions/or any other document. If buyer needs more items along with the main
item, the same must be added through bunching category based items or by bunching custom catalogues
or bunching a BoQ with the main category based item, the same must not be done through ATC or Scope
of Work.
Further, if any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of
this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in
the bid details field in Seller dashboard after logging in as a seller. Buyer is duty bound to reply to all such
representations and would not be allowed to open bids if he fails to reply to such representations.
*This document shall overwrite all previous versions of Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions.
This Bid is also governed by the General Terms and Conditions
9 / 9
SCOPE OF WORK, TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
Name of Work: Deployment and Operations of Advanced Life Support ( ALS) Ambulance for a 
period of 5 years at Jivantika Hospital MTPS Kanti. 
SCOPE OF WORK: 
1. Deployment and Operation of Advance Life Support (ALS) Ambulance as per Ambulance 
Code AIS- 125 of brand new , in white colour, air-conditioned (TEMP 18-25° C), BS-VI 
compliant, tubeless tyres, manufactured and fabricated as per Ambulance Code AIS-125 only 
along with equipment as per Ambulance code AIS-125 for ambulance of “ category-D”, 
consumables, fuel and manpower. The manpower to be available for 24 X 7 @ 8 hrs shift basis 
to carry and manage serious patients as and when required. They should work as per directions 
of the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) / Medical Officer In-Charge (MO I/C) / Engineer-in-Charge 
(EIC) or authorized representative, MTPS, Kanti. 
Manpower Requirement: 
 
Designation Manpower Category 
EMT 3 No’s  Skilled (SW)  
Medical Attendant  3 No’s  Semi-Skilled (SSW)  
Driver 3 No’s  Semi-Skilled (SSW)  
 
Note: 
 
1. 1 No. Reliever will be provided for 3 EMT’s 
2. 1 No. Reliever will be provided for 3 No’s Medical Attendant  
3. 1 No. Reliever will be provided for 3 Ambulance Drivers 
4. Total manpower mentioned is for 3 shifts- 24X7  
 
TERMS AND CONDITION OF ALS AMBULANCE: 
Advance Life Support (ALS) Ambulance: 
1. Advance Life Support (ALS) Ambulance of make Force traveller trauma or equivalent, 
Model -2026 or later (brand New), 3350- WB (8+d+1p, 54151x1975wx2550h) with power 
Steering, 16 V, DOHC, VGT, Dual Mass Fly Wheel in white colour, air-conditioned, BS-
VI compliant, tubeless tyres, manufactured and Fabricated as per Ambulance Code AIS-125 
only with 3-way siren & light, mike and operating system along with equipment as per AIS-
125 (Part-2), consumables, fuel (HSD) and manpower. i.e., Drivers, Emergency Medical 
Technicians & Medical Attendants.  
2. ‘Ambulance' should be written on front and back of the vehicle with fluorescent red colour 
stickers and ambulance logo in blue colour sticker.  
3. NTPC MTPS, Kanti name in Hindi/regional language and English should also be written 
on both side of the vehicle along with NTPC logo in bold letters.  
4. ALS ambulance shall be stationed in hospital for 24x7 and move to attend /transport 
patients as per the direction of the CMO of the hospital.  
5. Equipment/instruments & Other items to be made available and functional all the time. 
6. GPS enabled real time position tracker along with the software to track the same to be provided 
by the agency to the EIC/CMO. 
7. A total of 12 manpower (3+1 Drivers, 3+1 EMTs and 3+1 Medical Attendants) shall be 
deployed for 8-hour shifts as per relevant labour laws in which the three will be in shift and one 
will be reliever who will also be paid as per labour law. These manpower should undergo 
refresher course every year for equipment functioning and first aid which will be arranged and 
borne by the vendor. 
8. Equipment/Instruments & other items as per Annexures A, B, C, D are to be made available 
and functional all the time with yearly servicing contract for certification basis. 
 
 
A. Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) For ALS Ambulance (3+1 EMT): 
1. Emergency medical tech. should have certificate in Emergency Medical Technician advance 
through recognized institute of “Healthcare Sector Skill Council of India” (HSSC) or any 
other government recognized institute with minimum one-year experience in Emergency 
Services. 
2. Ambulance services are associated with human life. Therefore, emergency medical 
technicians must have full Experience, Knowledge/Trained for operation of all the equipment 
in ALS ambulance. 
3. They should attend the patients in emergency and also associate with ambulance for safe pick 
and drop including shifting of patients in/out of the ambulance at site/hospital while 
transportation and as per instructions of CMO/medical officer in-charge/ engineer in-charge 
or authorized executive of the project hospital. 
4. They should also assist Doctors/Staff Nurses on duty for better management of the patients 
in emergency as well as in stabilization center and to work in rural health camps/dispensary 
outside of the hospital as per instructions of above authorities. 
5. Knowledge of Hindi, English and local language may be preferred for deployment of 
manpower 
6. They should be medically fit, healthy and free from any communicable diseases. 
7. They should be well behaved, disciplined and ready to work in shift on rotational basis as pre 
direction of the EIC/CMO of the Jivantika Hospital, MTPS, Kanti. They should report at 
duty/workplace in uniform provided by the vendor before 15 minutes as per their duty 
schedule. 
8. They must maintain duty attendance register for Drivers, Medical Attendants and themselves 
per day as provided by the Vendor. They should produce the same to the EIC/CMO every day 
in the morning hours for verification. 
9. As the ambulance services are connected to human life, all the Emergency Medical 
Technicians must be ready to move for outstation duties at any time on the instructions of 
EIC/CMO of the Jivantika Hospital, MTPS for quick and fast services as and when required. 
10. They should be ready to work in shift on rotational basis as per direction of the EIC/CMO of 
Jivantika Hospital, MTPS, Kanti. 
11. All wages payable to EMT shall be processed through the CLIMS in accordance with 
applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
12. They should be ready to work in any section of hospital or any other job assigned to them on 
the instructions of the EIC/CMO. 
 
 
B. Medical Attendants for ALS Ambulance (03+1 Attendant):- 
1. Medical Attendants for ALS ambulances should have certificate in Dresser Cum First-Aider 
(DCFA) from Government-recognized institute like “Indian Red Cross Society” or “St. 
John’s Ambulance, or any other Government recognized institute with minimum one-year 
experience. 
2. They should work on ambulance and also assist Doctors, Staff Nurses on duty for better 
management of the patients in emergency as well as in stabilization center and also to perform 
duty in rural camps/dispensary outside of hospital as per instructions of the EIC/CMO of the 
Project Hospital. 
3. They should associate with ambulance for safe pick and drop including shifting of patients 
in/out of the ambulance at Site/Hospital while transportation and as per instructions of 
EIC/CMO of the Project Hospital. 
4. To work in any section of Project Hospital as per requirement. 
5. To maintain records of the section where they are deployed. 
6. Knowledge of Hindi, English and local language may be preferred for deployment of 
manpower. 
7. They should be medically fit, healthy and free from any communicable diseases. 
8. They should be well behaved, disciplined and ready to work in shift on rotational basis as pre 
direction of the EIC/CMO of the Project Hospital. They should report at duty/work place in 
uniform provided by the Vendor before 15 minutes as per their duty schedule. 
9. All the medical attendants must be ready to move for outstation duties at any time on the 
instructions of EIC/CMO. 
10. All wages payable to Medical Attendant shall be processed through the CLIMS in accordance 
with applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
11. They should be ready to work in any section of hospital or any other job assigned to them on 
the instructions of the EIC/CMO. 
 
C. Drivers for ALS Ambulances (03+1 Drivers):- 
1. Drivers of ALS ambulances should have minimum one-year experience of Heavy Motor 
Vehicle/Ambulance driving and valid HMV (commercial) Driving License, which should be 
renewed from time to time. Drivers must have full knowledge of Hindi/Local language, 
locations from where they pick and drop the sick and serious patients. They should also be 
literate to read the traffic signs and rules. They should be fully capable to fill Vehicle Logbook 
in proper way without cutting and overwriting. 
2. They should be well behaved, disciplined and report at duty place in uniform provided by the 
Agency before 15 minutes as per their duty schedule. They must produce vehicle logbook per 
day as provided by the Agency to get sign/verified by the EIC/CMO every day in the morning 
hrs. 
3. As the ambulance services are connected to human life, all the drivers must be ready to move 
for outstation duties at any time on the instructions of EIC/CMO of the Project Hospital for 
quick and fast services as and when required. 
4. They should be responsible for safe pick & drop including shifting of patients in/out of the 
ambulance at site/hospital while transportation. 
5. They should be ready to work in shift on rotational basis as per instruction of the EIC/CMO 
of the Hospital. 
6. They should be medically fit, healthy, and free from any communicable diseases. Contracting 
agency must get their medical examination done once in a year during the contract period at 
their own cost. 
7. They should be ready to work in Rural Health Camp/Dispensary outside of the hospital as per 
instruction of the EIC/CMO. 
8. All wages payable to drivers shall be processed through the CLIMS in accordance with 
applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
9. They should be ready to work in any section of hospital or any other job assigned to them on 
the instructions of the EIC/CMO. 
 
 
OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
1. Vendor has to deploy 24x7 basis ambulance along with equipment, fuel (HSD), consumables 
and manpower as per scope of work, manufacturer fabricated only, brand new (not operated 
earlier),  2026 or later model: Air Conditioned, GPS compliant, white colour Force Traveller 
Trauma 3350-wb (9+d+1p) or equivalent, Power Steering, Dual Mass Fly Wheel, BS-VI 
compliant and tubeless tyres model with 3-way siren light, mike & operating system for 
Advance Life Support Ambulance. 
2. Operational cost of ambulance for lubricants, tubeless tyres, normal wear & tear including 
accidental maintenance, manpower, equipment maintenance, consumables, legal 
compliances, insurance of vehicles & manpower and any other directly & indirectly charges 
related to vehicles and manpower etc. shall have to be borne by the contracting vendor. 
3. Looking into road safety, vehicle head lights & fog lights bulbs, siren light bulbs, indicators 
lights bulbs shall be replaced immediately if found defective. Ambulance tyres shall also be 
changed immediately, if rubber grip of single or all tyres become smooth, on the instructions 
of the EIC/CMO. Noncompliance shall be treated the ambulance absent in whole shift and an 
amount Rs. 5000/- shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
4. The ambulance must be maintained properly throughout the contract period with decent 
upholstery like curtains, seats leather seat covers etc. Curtains and seat covers are to be 
cleaned regularly at an interval of 15 days or earlier if dirty, whereas the same may be replaced 
immediately if found rotten. Noncompliance shall be deducted Rs. 100/- per day from the 
R.A. Bill/s of the agency. 
5. Deployment of qualified and professionally trained manpower on ambulance round the clock 
i.e. one Emergency Medical Technician (EMT), one Medical Attendant (M.A.) & One Driver 
in each shift of 8 hours is essential on Advance Life Support Ambulance. 
6. Vendor has to keep reserve work force for ambulance shift rotation and leave. Being 
emergency services, Non-deployment of drivers in any shift on ambulance shall be treated 
whole shift of particular ambulance as absent and an amount Rs. 5000/- shall be deducted 
from the RA bill/s of the vendor against such absence. Non-deployment of emergency medical 
technician or medical attendant staff on ambulance in any shift shall be treated as absent. In 
such cases an amount Rs. 1000/- per manpower per shift shall be deducted from the RA bill/s 
of the Vendor. 
7. EIC/CMO is the final authority to remove any manpower without any notice/reason to the 
vendor if work of particular manpower is found un-satisfactory. Vendor must replace such 
manpower immediately. Non-compliance of the same shall be treated as ALS ambulance 
absent shift in case of driver and Rs. 5000/- shall be deducted for the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor 
in this account whereas Rs. 1000/- shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor against 
other manpower. 
8. All expenses towards salary, uniform, repair and maintenance of ambulance and 
equipment/instruments, consumables including medicines/drugs in the First Aid/ Rescue Kit, 
Fuel (HSD), lubricants, damages due to accident, comprehensive insurance, road tax, 
Pollution Under Control certificate, income tax, GST or any other taxes including parking 
charges, ambulance fitness, vehicle & deployed manpower insurance, mobile phone, medical 
expenses of manpower, room rent, legal compliances etc. not mentioned herein shall also be 
arranged and borne by the vendor. 
9. It is the sole responsibility of the vendor to keep full tank of Fuel (HSD) every time. The 
operational cost for fuel for 1000 KM per month will be part of the overall operational 
expense. The extra kilometres run by the ambulance beyond 1000 KM will be reimbursed on 
the actual Kilometres run divided by 10 (considering the ambulance runs 10 kilometres per 
litre of Diesel) multiplied by the price of one litre of HSD/ Diesel in that month. Fuel used or 
KM run for fuel refilling or other ambulance works will be borne by vendor as part of vehicle 
maintenance. 
10. All the relevant documents pertaining to statutory compliance shall be submitted to the 
EIC/CMO. Any penalty imposed by any authority on this account shall be borne by the 
agency.  
11. Vehicle should comply strictly with provision of pollution control in line with the decisions 
of Supreme Court/NGT from time to time and should comply with statutory regulations issued 
from time to time in this regard. Non-compliance shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of 
the agency @ Rs. 500/- per day. 
12. It is compulsory to provide Pre/Postpaid cell phone (mobile) on ALS ambulance. Mobile 
number to be informed to the EIC/CMO. Vendor has to provide the same on their own cost 
& risk. Rs. 100/- per day shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor against non-
compliance. 
13. Ambulance may have to perform outstation duties also on the instructions of the EIC/CMO 
for which no extra charges will be paid i.e. for overstay, night stay, manpower TA/DA and 
any other charges. 
14. Ambulance deployed should be owned and registered with the RTO by and in the name of 
the vendor only. No vehicle shall be allowed to be sold/mortgaged or sub-let during the entire 
contract period. In case of any violation, shall have full right to short-close the contract 
without any notice by forfeiting the entire EMD/ SD etc. of the vendor. NTPC reserves full 
right to short-close the contract without any notices/reasons by forfeiting the entire EMD/ SD 
etc. of the vendor. 
15. Periodic maintenance at an interval of every three months with prior approval of the EIC is 
essential for which 12-16 hours leave may be given and the vendor has to provide a substitute 
ambulance for the same period. Maintenance Certificate from Vehicle’s Authorized Service 
Station has to be submitted after each service/maintenance. No payment shall be paid to the 
agency for this activity by NTPC. Penalty @ Rs. 10000/- shall be imposed for non-compliance 
of each service. However, grace period for 15 days will be allowed for any unforeseen 
circumstances. 
16. AMC/ Warranty of the medical equipment & instruments installed in ALS ambulance is 
mandatory for the durations of the contract. Repair in case of breakdown has to be ensured 
within 36 hours and Non-Compliance shall be penalized @ Rs. 1000/- per day per 
equipment/instrument after 36 hours and shall be deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor. 
Similarly, consumables shall be re-filled within 24 hours otherwise Rs. 500/- shall be 
deducted from the R.A. Bill/s of the vendor after 24 hours @ per day per consumable. 
17. Vendor has to provide 2 sets of uniform per year to deployed manpower i.e. Navy blue 
trousers (pant) and sky blue shirts to drivers, white trousers (pant) and white shirts to 
Emergency Medical Technicians and navy blue trousers (pant) and white shirts to Medical 
Attendants in first month for which no extra payment shall be paid by the NTPC to the vendor. 
Penalty Rs. 50/- per person per day shall be imposed for non-compliance which shall be 
deducted from RA bill/s of the vendor. 
18. Contractor has to pay minimum wages to deployed manpower to Drivers and Medical 
Attendants for SSW, Emergency Medical Technicians for SW. The Agency/ contractor shall 
ensure that the manpower engaged are not paid less than the minimum wages as admissible 
and notified by appropriate government from time to time (Central/State Govt. Minimum 
Wages whichever is higher). Whenever there is any increase in minimum wages as notified 
by appropriate government, the Agency/ contractor shall make payment of such increment 
along with related statutory compliance. 
19. The wage period is considered from 26 th of a month to 25 th of next month. Vendor must pay 
minimum wages latest by 2 nd day through bank of each month for previous month. Non-
compliance shall be imposed Rs.100/- per person per day after 2 nd day of the month. All 
payments to the manpower engaged in the contract will be made to their bank account through 
online payment. The contractor shall ensure timely payments to all the persons deployed 
under this contract through bank only and shall not link the same with receipt of payments 
from NTPC, MTPS against monthly RA Bills. Non-compliance of this clause shall be 
reflected in the performance feedback report of the contractor & penalized as per the 
discretion of EIC/CMO, NTPC, MTPS. 
20. Vendor has to provide copies of Pay Slips, Bank Deposit Slips, PF deposit slips/challans for 
HR clearance along with the monthly RA bills for release of payment to the vendor. 
21. Vendor shall follow compulsorily the rules of PF act and deposit the PF against each deployed 
manpower. Penalty of Rs. 1000/- shall be imposed per man per month against non-compliance 
which shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
22. Prior to deployment of manpower, vendor should take Group Insurance/ESI/WC Policy of 
their manpower as per norms at their own cost per year basis or for entire contract period. Rs. 
5000/- per month against non-compliance shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
In cases where ESIC may not be applicable, insurance under WC Act shall be obtained. 
23. Vendor has to keep Rs. 5000/- cash to the Emergency Medical Tech. on duty from the first 
day of the date of start of the contract till complete execution of the contract for minor 
maintenance/fuel (HSD) requirement/toll and parking charges etc. in emergencies. Non-
compliance shall be imposed with penalty of Rs. 100/- per day which shall be deducted from 
R.A. Bill/s of the vendor.  
24. In case failure to complete the contract and performance of the vehicle and compliance to the 
contractual provision is/are found unsatisfactory, the contract may be terminated by short 
closure by NTPC without any notice forthwith and Security Deposit/CPG, EMD, pending 
bill/s etc. shall be forfeited. No compensation shall be paid for un-utilised portion of the 
contract period. 
25. All payment shall be released on completion of a month after receiving proper bill/s from the 
contractor in the prescribed proforma along with supporting documents as may be needed 
from time to time. 
26. In case of non-availability of the vehicle for minor/major breakdown, an alternative vehicle 
shall be arranged immediately. However, the deployment of alternative vehicle shall be 
allowed subject to fitness, road worthiness and proper documents of vehicle as agreed in 
contract. 
27. If the agency designates or hires a Supervisor/Power of Attorney/Team Leader person, the 
agency shall ensure that the individual has no prior history of misbehavior or misconduct in 
any contracts/services. Any individual determined to be unsuitable shall be removed from the 
role and replaced immediately by the NTPC Management. 
28. NTPC shall not be liable to provide either accommodation or garage facilities to the vendor 
or their employees. However, as a case of ambulance, shared type accommodation in 
township/transit campsite may be provided on commercial rent as per NTPC norms subject 
to availability. 
29. Vendor has to provide the list of all workers containing name, age, sex, and address with thana 
of each and every worker along with photograph duly verified by the village/town authority 
within a month of deployment of workers. 
30. Vendor has to arrange medical facilities to all their deployed workers at their own cost. NTPC 
shall not be held responsible to provide such facilities. Also, no reimbursement shall be 
applicable in this account. 
31. Vendor and their employees shall not at any time cause or permit any nuisance or damage to 
properties on the site and township and/ or do anything which shall cause unnecessary 
disturbance or inconvenience to the patients, hospital, residents or anyone. Doing so, they 
shall be penalized on the discretion of the NTPC hospital and HR authorities. 
32. Duty roster of the workers are very important and shall be provided by the vendor on the last 
working day of the month for the succeeding month in the office of the EIC/CMO. Rs. 100/- 
per day shall be deducted through R.A. Bill/s of the vendor against non-compliance. 
33. Contractor has to maintain the following records and provide to the EIC/CMO for verification 
of following records: 
a. Attendance Register 
b. Employment Card 
c. Register of Wages 
d. Wage Slip 
e. Register of Deductions for Damage or Loss 
f. Register of Fines 
g. Comprehensive Insurance of Workmen 
h. Employees’ Provident Fund 
i. PF Challan 
j. Register of Workmen Deployed 
k. Insurance Coverage 
l. Any other Records as per NTPC norms/ Statutory requirement. 
 
34. The Agency shall ensure that all the manpower engaged in the contract must be covered by 
PMJJBY & PMSBY schemes within one month of award of the said contract. The 
reimbursement may be made to the agency subject to production of documentary evidence. 
As per scheme of PMJJBY & PMSBY, the coverage cycle is 1st June to 30th  May every year. 
Accordingly, policy shall be arranged by the agency. Penalty of Rs. 100/- per month each 
manpower against non-compliance shall be deducted from the RA bill/s of the vendor. 
35. All mandatory requirements such as Identity Cards for each Employee, Verification of 
Character and Antecedent by Police, Fitness Certificate, etc. to be followed by Agency. 
36. All wages payable to deployed manpower shall be processed through the CLIMS in 
accordance with applicable laws, rules, and organizational guidelines. 
37. The Agency shall provide all the Safety Equipment and related PPEs (Safety Helmet, Safety 
Shoes, Safety Reflective Jacket etc.) as per requirement, according to their working conditions 
/ work requirements at their own cost. All Safety precautions with respect to the engaged 
manpower shall solely be the responsibility of the Agency. The Agency shall comply with the 
instructions given by the Safety Department of NTPC-MTPS. If PPE requirement increases 
due to rearrangement of workers or change of workers, the extra cost of PPEs shall be in the 
scope of Agency. 
38. If any contractor worker found working without using the Safety equipment like Safety 
Helmet, Safety Shoes, Safety Belts/Reflecting Jacket etc. the CMO/ EIC / Deputed Officer or 
his representative /Safety Officer of NTPC shall have the right to penalize the contractor up 
to Rs.1000/-per person per day and such worker shall be sent out immediately and shall not 
be allowed to work on that day. CMO/ EIC / Deputed Officer or his representative /Safety 
officer of NTPC will also issue a notice in this regard to the contractor. 
39. Contractor shall undertake to fully comply with the terms and conditions of this agreement 
and perform the jobs so assigned to the entire satisfaction of NTPC. In the event of failure to 
do so, NTPC shall have the Right to Terminate the contract and take action as per the 
provisions of the bidding document, contract agreement and NTPC GCC. 
40. The Agency shall be fully responsible for compliance of all statutory liabilities as it is 
applicable to such type of works. In no case the MTPS shall be hold responsible monetarily 
or otherwise for violation of such rules by the contractor.  
41. After completion of the contract period, the contractor is responsible for the PF amount 
settlement to the workmen within the one month from the date of completion. After settlement 
of PF and all other dues from the contractor to the workmen, then only the security deposit of 
the contractor will be released by NTPC. 
42. In case of revision of Minimum Wages (and other applicable Statutory Components) by 
Statutory Authority with concurrent or retrospective effect, the Agency will have to pay the 
arrears as well as normal monthly wages (and other applicable Statutory Components) at 
revised rate to his labours for the tenure of the contract. Accordingly, the Agency must ensure 
the payment of minimum wages (and other applicable statutory components compliance) as 
per revised minimum wage after submission of proof of payment on revised rate of wages. 
NTPC will pay the Wage escalation to Agency as per actual (difference in minimum wages 
+ statutory components). 
43. Termination of Contract: The contract can be terminated on the following conditions: 
a. Subletting of contract, bankruptcy etc. 
b. If the contractor leaves the work during the period of the contract. 
c. If the contractor is not able to cope up with the work assigned to him or does not 
engage sufficient suitable workers or the work has to be done or through outside 
agency frequently causing the dislocation of work. 
d. If the contractor acts in contravention of the Terms & Conditions of the contracts. 
e. The contract may be terminated by NTPC by giving 15 days advance notice to the 
Agency. But, if the agency desires to terminate the contract, the Agency shall have to 
give a written notice in three (03) months advance to the NTPC management, but such 
termination will be done at risk & cost of the Agency and the security deposit shall be 
forfeited. 
f. In case of any misconduct/indiscipline/Non-performance/unsatisfactory performance 
or any other reason what-so-ever as per contract terms of the contractor, the EIC/CMO 
reserves the full right to terminate the contract at once without giving any reason 
thereof by serving 15 days’ notice. 
g. The performance of the Agency will be reviewed by the management of NTPC/MTPS 
after each month, and if found unsatisfactory, the contract shall be terminated at any 
point of time without assigning any reason to the Agency and the security deposit shall 
be liable to be forfeited. 
h. Non-compliance with the statutory provisions/acts for the payment of salary to the 
staff shall be viewed seriously and contract will be terminated. 
i. NTPC further reserves the Right of terminate the contract at any time after giving 15 
days’ Advance Notice in writing as deemed necessary and the contractor shall have 
no claim whatsoever on this account.  
44. Engineer-in-Charge (EIC) will be CMO (Medical) or their Authorized Representative. 
45. SD will be deducted as per NTPC norms. 
46. All other Terms and Conditions shall be as per NTPC GCC. 
47. Date of vehicle deployment i.e. date of start will be 11.05.2026 or as communicated by 
EIC/CMO. However, successful bidders must be ready to deploy their vehicle within 60 days 
from the date of receipt of LOI/ Award letter which ever earlier. Delay in deployment of 
vehicle shall be penalize to agency @ RS. 1000/-per day, which will be deducted from R.A. 
Bill/s or SD/EMD. 
48. Contract shall be valid for a period of 60 months from the date of operation certified by 
EIC/CMO with provision of extension for 3 months at the discretion of NTPC on the 
same rate, terms and conditions on mutual consent. 
49. Payment terms & conditions: 
a. Payment shall be made for the hiring services of Ambulances on the monthly basis for the 
services rendered in preceding month as per the contract after submission of monthly bills. 
b. Fuel charges shall be reimbursed for the KMs run beyond 1000KM considering mileage 
@ 10KMPL, during the preceding month with the prevailing rate at nearby fuel filling 
station. 
c. Toll taxes/parking charges as per actuals shall be reimbursed on documentary evidence 
along with RA bills. 
50. Penalty clause is applicable as mentioned in terms & conditions for different services. 
51. Defect liability period: Nil. 
52. Amount linked to Safety: 2%. 
 BILL OF QUANTITY
SL NO DESCRIPTION UNIT
RATE( inclusive of
GST@0%) QUANTITY
AMOUNT(inclusive of
GST@0%)
10 DEPLOY. OF ALS AMBULANCE-TYPE-D
10.10
Hiring Charges-ALS Ambulance along with Manpower and 
fuel as detailed in Scope of Work. MONTH ₹ 4,10,400.00 60 ₹ 2,46,24,000.00
GRAND TOTAL ₹ 2,46,24,000.00
NOTES
Approval for Hiring of Advanced Life Support (ALS) Type-D Ambulance at Jivantika Hospital MTPS Kanti for 5 years
Bidder has to quote the total package cost (incl. of GST ) in GEM Price Bid for subject NIT  as per Scope of Work for 60 months.
Bidder must check the total package cost wrto to the estimated amount before the Bid submission on
GEM.
As the subject work pertains to deployment of Ambulance which comes under GST Exemption thus the
GST % considered is NIL. However, Bidders are requested to indicate the applicable GST% in Attachment 09.