EPC PACKAGE FOR 20 MW FLOATING SOLAR PV PROJECT AT 
MARODA RESERVOIR-2, BHILAI  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. CMCC260018 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
Page 1 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION - I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EPC PACKAGE FOR 20 MW FLOATING SOLAR PV PROJECT AT 
MARODA RESERVOIR-2, BHILAI  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. CMCC260018 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
Page 2 of 6 
 
 
 
            INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A JV OF NTPC & SAIL) 
 
(CORPORATE C&M, NEW DELHI) 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR 20 MW FLOATING SOLAR PV PROJECT AT  
MARODA RESERVOIR-2, BHILAI 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No: 2026_NSPCL_275573_1   
Date: 24.04.2026 
Bidding Document No: CMCC260018 
 
 
1.0 
 
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited (NSPCL) invites on-line bids at Government e-procurement 
portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope 
Basis (i.e. Envelope -I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid)  from eligible 
Bidders for EPC Package for 20MW Floating Solar PV Project at Maroda Reservoir -2, Bhilai 
as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The brief scope of work interalia includes the following: 
The scope of the project shall be detailed design of Grid Interactive Solar PV Plant, civil, electrical 
& mechanical auxiliary systems including preparation of foundation drawings, single line diagrams, 
installation drawings, electrical layouts, design calculations etc. Design memorandum and other 
relevant drawings and documents required for engineering of all facilities within the scope to be 
provided under this contract, are covered under contractor’s scope of work. 
Scope covers development of Floating Solar PV plant along with power evacuation system 
including supply & installation of PV modules in the designated area. The scope also includes three 
(03) years Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the solar PV plant as well as Annual Maintenance 
Contract (AMC) of critical equipment for the period specified in relevant part of the technical 
specification. The scope of work covers the following activities and services in respect of all the 
equipment & wor ks specified and covered under the specifications and read in conjunction with 
“Scope of Supply & services” elaborated elsewhere in the technical specification. 
All equipment, materials and services whether explicitly stated or otherwise and that are necessary 
for the satisfactory operation of the Solar PV system and its integration with the existing AC 
Systems as described in the specification shall be deemed to be included in the scope of work of 
the Contractor and shall not be limited to the following: 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR 20 MW FLOATING SOLAR PV PROJECT AT 
MARODA RESERVOIR-2, BHILAI  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. CMCC260018 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
Page 3 of 6 
 
            INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
1) Basic Engineering at the plant and systems. 
2) Detailed design of all the equipment and equipment system(s) including civil works. 
3) Providing, Review and approval of engineering drawings, data, process. 
4) Calculations, test procedures, Structural Design Calculations, Equipment Layout, Drawings / 
Data sheets of bought out items, Civil Structural/ Architectural Drawings, OTGT/PG test etc. 
5) Providing Operation & Maintenance/ instruction manuals, as built drawings and other 
information 
6) Providing training of Employer's personnel 
7) Finalization of sub-vendors, manufacturing quality plans and Field quality plans. 
8) Mandatory permission/ licenses/ statutory clearances from Competent Authorities for 
undertaking blasting related works, disposal of cutting material, etc. shall be carried out by 
the Bidder 
9) Complete manufacturing including conducting all type, routine and acceptance tests; Civil, 
Structural and Architectural works to the extent applicable, including construction facilities 
and construction power distribution. 
10) Packing and transportation from the manufacturer's works to the site including customs 
clearance & port clearance, port charges, (if any). 
11) Receipt, storage, preservation and conservation of equipment at the site; Fabrication, pre -
assembly, (if any), erection, testing, pre-commissioning and commissioning and putting into 
satisfactory operation all the equipment including successful completion of initial operation. 
12) Topographical survey & Gee -Technical investigation of land/waterbody and bathymetry 
survey of water body (if required). 
13) Site - Grading & Clearing of Vegetation (if required), dredging works, if required, for floater 
blocks, inverter platform, access ways etc. 
14) Supply of floaters, Installation, anchoring, fixing of floaters for SPV panels, pathways for the 
floating system, including fixing of PV Modules on Floaters. 
15) Launching platforms, O&M platforms with suitable road and water access as per requirement. 
16) Arranging power supply and water supply for construction purposes. 
17) Construction of Pre-Engineered type Inverter room/platform (if applicable) with Central/String 
Inverter along with associated LT and HT switchgear. 
18) All associated electrical and civil works required for interfacing with grid i.e. transformers, 
Isolators, CTs, CBs, panels, protection system, cables, metering at 33 kV and 132 kV level, 
grid compliance study as per regulation etc. 
19) All equipment, materials and services that are necessary for implementation of the reactive 
power compensations system as per the grid study with satisfactory o peration of the Solar 
PV system and its integration with the existing AC Systems. 
20) Evacuation of power as per tender drawing. 
21) Construction of Central Monitoring and Control Station, with SCADA, PPC panel and 
associated equipment at identified location within Floating Solar Plant Premises. 
22) Underground Cabling of 33 kV from Pooling Switchgears of FSPV to 132 kV NSPCL Bhilai 
Switchyard which includes multiple railway crossings, augmentation of 132KV bay with 
EPC PACKAGE FOR 20 MW FLOATING SOLAR PV PROJECT AT 
MARODA RESERVOIR-2, BHILAI  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. CMCC260018 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
Page 4 of 6 
 INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
suitable bus bar extension with dedicated control fro m SAS and integration of SAS with 
Floating plant SCADA. 
23) Module cleaning system Wet Method) including supply and installation of all accessories like
monitoring system at CMCS and associated equipment and services at identified location.
24) SCADA system for re mote monitoring and control of Inverters with all hardware & software
and complete set of Weather Monitoring Station including cloud cover.
25) CCTV System for remote monitoring of the complete project including supply and installation
of all accessories like monitoring system at CMCS and associated equipment and services
at identified location.
26) Comprehensive Operation & maintenance of SPV Plant along with electrical equipment,
consumables, and spare parts for a period of Three years from the date of commissioning.
27) Reliability and Functional guarantee tests after successful commissioning of full capacity.
28) Supply of Mandatory Spares.
29) Satisfactory completion of the contract.
30) Special tools and tackles if any required for maintenance of the plant.
31) Detailed system wise scope is elaborated in respective part of the technical specification.
The work to be carried out as per the above scope shall be all in accordance with the requirements, 
conditions, appendices etc. given in Technical Specifications together with those stated in other 
Sections/Sub-sections of Bid Documents which shall be considered as a part of this volumes 
completely as if bound herewith. It is not the intent to specify herein all aspects of design and 
construction nevertheless, the equipment  and civil works shall conforming all aspects to high 
standard of engineering, design and workmanship and shall be capable of performing in continuous 
commercial operation in a manner acceptable to the Employer, who will interpret the meaning of 
the specification and drawings and shall have a right to reject or accept any work or material which 
in his assessment is not complete to meet the requirements of this specification and/or applicable 
Indian / International standards mentioned elsewhere in this specification 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per specifications and scope defined in the Bidding 
Document. 
3.0 NSPCL intends to finance the aforesaid Package through NSPCL – Internal resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available at the GePNIC (e -tender) portal at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding 
Schedule* for the Tender is as under:   
Issuance of IFB 24.04.2026 11:00 hrs (IST) 
Documents Download Dates 
and Time 
24.04.2026 11:00 hrs (IST) 
Last date for receipt of 
queries from bidders (if any)**
07.05.2026 18:00 hrs (IST)
Pre-bid conference date & time 07.05.2026 11:30 hrs (IST)
Bid (both Techno-Commercial 
and Price) start date & time 
08.05.2026 09:00 hrs (IST)
Bid (both Techno-Commercial 
and Price) submission end date 
& time 
18.05.2026 14:00 hrs (IST)
EPC PACKAGE FOR 20 MW FLOATING SOLAR PV PROJECT AT 
MARODA RESERVOIR-2, BHILAI  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. CMCC260018 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
Page 5 of 6 
 INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
Date & Time for opening of 
Envelop-I (Techno-Commercial 
bid) 
19.05.2026 14:00 hrs (IST)
Date & Time for opening of 
Envelop-II (Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of Techno - 
Commercial Bid. 
Bid Security/EMD Amount INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Two Crores Only) 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NSPCL for updated bidding schedule of
the Tender.
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal of 
NSPCL”. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees 
Two Crore only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE PROOF OF E -
PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
(Bidders who are unable to send the Original Bank Guarantee in physical form at the tender 
opening location, may adopt procedure given in Bidding documents or may opt for Online Transfer 
of Bid Security through NEFT/RTGS to NSPCL’s Bank whose details are provided in the Bidding 
Document). 
6.0 
7.0 
A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the e-Tender Portal 
as per specified schedule. The  tender is invited under e -tendering process. The bidders can enroll 
themselves on the website https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app. The use of Digital Signature Certificate 
(DSC) Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature 
Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain  DSC Class-3 
key from agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY at the e -Tender 
Portal i.e., https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is Attached as Appendix-1 
8.0 
9.0 
The bidder shall be mandatorily required to certify their compliance on “Non -Disclosure 
Agreement”. 
NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ intending bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
10.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe that 
bidder is considered qualified. 
11.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
EPC PACKAGE FOR 20 MW FLOATING SOLAR PV PROJECT AT 
MARODA RESERVOIR-2, BHILAI  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. CMCC260018 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
Page 6 of 6 
 
            INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
12.0 
 
 
 
 
13.0 
'Class-I local suppliers’ and ‘Class-II local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined 
in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
14.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION  
HOD (CC&M),  
NTPC SAIL Power Company Limited,  
4th Floor, NBCC Tower,  
15, Bhikaiji Cama Place,  
New Delhl-110066 
Contact: 011-26717379  
e-mail  : sk.babel@nspcl.co.in / hodcnm.cc@nspcl.co.in  
 Websites: https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app  or  www.nspcl.co.in 
 
Registered Office 
 
NTPC- SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
4th Floor, NBCC Tower, 
15 Bhikaiji Cama Place, 
New Delhi - 110066 
Corporate Identification Number:U74899DL1999PLC098274,  
  Website: www.nspcl.co.in 
  
 
 APPENDIX-1 TO IFB 
Page 1 of 3 
 
 
QR for Development of 20 MW Floating Solar PV Project at Maroda Reservoir-2, Bhilai 
 
 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and Clause 2.0. 
 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria 
 
1.1 The Bidder should have designed, supplied, erected/ supervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning of Solar Photo Voltaic (SPV) based grid 
connected power plant(s) of cumulative installed capacity of 16 MWp or higher, out of which 
at least one plant should have been of 10 MWp or higher capacity. The reference plant of 
10 MWp or higher capacity must have been in successful operation for at least six (6) 
months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
 
1.2 The Bidder should be a developer of Solar Photo Voltaic (SPV) based grid connected power 
plant(s) of cumulative installed capacity of 16 MWp or higher, out of which at least one plant 
should have been of 10 MWp or higher capacity. The reference plant of 10 MWp or higher 
capacity must have been in successful operation for at least six (6) months prior to the date 
of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
 
1.3 (a) The Bidder should have executed in the last ten (10) years an industrial project either 
as developer or as EPC Contractor in the area of power/ steel/ oil and gas/ petro-chemical/ 
fertilizer/cement/coal mining including coal handling plant and/ or any other process 
industry, of a value of Rs. 120 Crore (Indian Rupees One Hundred Twenty Crore only) or 
more in a single project or single work and the same should be in successful operation for 
at least one (1) year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
AND 
(b) The Bidder should have executed at least one (1) Electrical Sub-station of 33 kV or 
above voltage level, consisting of equipment such as 33kV or above voltage level circuit 
breakers and Power transformer, either as developer or as EPC Contractor which should 
be in successful operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening 
 
The works referred at clause 1.3 (a) & 1.3 (b) can be in same or different projects. 
 
OR 
 
1.4 The bidder should be an Indian company r egistered in India and should be Group 
company/Holding Company/Subsidiary company of a firm meeting the requirement (s) of 
Clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 above. In such as case, Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking jointly 
executed by the firm qualified as per clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 and the Bidder along with its 
bid for complete performance of the contract jointly and severally as per format enclosed in 
the bid document failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected. 
 
 
 
 
 APPENDIX-1 TO IFB 
Page 2 of 3 
 
Note for 1.0 
a. The reference SPV based grid-connected power plant of 10 MWp or above capacity should 
be at a single location developed by Bidder for itself or any other client. 
b. SPV based Roof-top/Floating solar power projects, which are grid connected, shall also be 
considered eligible for QR purposes. 
c. For clause 1.1 & 1.3, bidder shall submit certificate of successful completion and operation 
from the Owner. However, if bidder in clause 1.3 is a developer, certificate of successful 
commissioning of the project issued from Government Renewable Nodal 
Agency/Government Enterprise/Discom/ Electricity Board etc. and evidence of successful 
operation from intermediary procurer/procurer/Discom/ Electricity Board etc. shall be 
submitted. 
d. For Clause 1.3, bidder shall submit a docu mentary evidence for the value of the project 
certified by a Chartered Accountant. 
e. Direct/Indirect Order. 
The bidder shall also be considered qualified, in case the award for executing the reference 
work has been received by the bidder either directly from the owner of the plant or any other 
intermediary organization. In such a case, a certificate from such owner of plant or any 
other intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the bidder along with 
its techno -commercial bid in support  of bidder’s claim of meeting the qualification 
requirement as per clause 1.1 and 1.3 above. Bidder shall also submit a certificate of 
successful completion and operation from the Owner. 
f. For Clause 1.2, bidder shall submit certificate of successful comm issioning of the project 
issued from Government Renewable Nodal Agency/ Government Enterprises/ Discom/ 
Electricity Board etc. 
g. For Clause1.2, bidder shall submit evidence of successful operation from intermediary 
procurer/ procurer/Discom/ Electricity Board etc. 
h. Developer means an entity who has either executed or got executed the work/ project as 
owner of industrial projects  
 
i. The execution of industrial project as EP C Contractor under Clause No. 1.3 means, such 
EPC Contractor is responsible for a ll the activities i.e. Design/Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction (with/without civil works) and Commissioning of a project/work.  
j. The portion of work related to power transformer such as supply and or installation mentioned 
at clause No. 1.3 (b) can either be done by EPC contractor by themselves or by the owner.  
k. EPC projects with solar PV module supplied by developer/owner as free issue item to EPC 
contractor shall also be considered eligible for route 1.1 of QR.  
l. The figures indicated in 1.3( a) are exclusive of Taxes and Duties. If required, certificate in 
support of taxes and duties to be provided from Chartered Accountant.  
 
2.0 Financial Criteria 
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, should not be less than Rs. 120 Crore (Indian 
Rupees One Hundred Twenty Crore only) during the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid - up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
Techno-commercial Bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by 
the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract 
by the Bidder in case of award. 
 APPENDIX-1 TO IFB 
Page 3 of 3 
 
2.2 Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of bidder’s paid-up share capital. In case the Bidder does not 
satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on 
the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its 
Holding companies wherever applicable. The Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. 
However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy-five percent) of 
their respective paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1, X2, X3 are individual 
Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up share capitals and 
Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents on substantiation 
of its qualification: 
 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(b) Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno -commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited result of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from 
the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial 
results of the company are under audit as on techno -commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
 
Note 
 
a. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
means all reserves cred ited out of the profits and share premium account but does not 
include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus.  
b. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.  
c. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them a s per 
Companies Act of India.  
d. For the value of industrial project in clause 1.3(a) and/ or the annual turnover and net worth 
indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to the date of 
Techno-commercial bid opening shall be used.  
e. The figures indicated in  2.1 are exclusive of Taxes a nd Duties. If required, certificate in 
support of taxes and duties to be provided from Chartered Accountant.  
 
*** 
,uVhihlh-lsy ikoj dEiuh fyfeVsM 
(,uVhihlh vkSj lsy dk la;qDr midze) dsUnzh; dk;kZy;
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited  Corporate Centre 
(A joint venture of NTPC & SAIL)
iathd`r dk;kZy;( prqFkZ ry] ,uchlhlh Vkoj] 15 Hkhdkth dkek Iysl] ubZ fnYyh& 110066 
Registered & Corporate Office: 4th Floor, NBCC Tower, 15, Bhikaji Cama Place, New Delhi – 110066 
Phone nwjHkk’k : 26717380, C&M 26717376 / 77 QsDl Fax: 26717365.
U74899DL1999PLC098274 
CORRIGENDUM NO. 1 dated 24.04.2026 
Tender ID No: 2026_NSPCL_275573_1  dated 24.04.2026 
Package:. EP C Package fo r 20MW Floa ting Solar PV Projec t a t Maroda 
Reservoir-2, Bhilai 
Dear Sir 
This is in  reference to IFB bearing Bidding Document No: CMCC260018 and above 
mentioned Tender  ID  No:  2026_NSPCL_275573_1   dated  24.0 4.2026 and  for  EPC 
Package for  20MW  Floating  Solar  PV  Project  at  Maroda  Reservoir-2,  Bhilai,  
available on  Government  e-procurement  portal  of  NIC (GePNIC)  at  website  - 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app 
Kindly note the following change s withou t any change in the bidding schedules and 
arrange to submit your offer accordingly. 
An Errata No-01 dated 24.04.2026 to the Bidding Documents is issued which will 
form integral part of the bidding documents.  All other details and terms and 
conditions of NIT/IFB will remain same.  
Thanking You. 
Your faithfully 
For & on Behalf of NSPCL 
(S.K. Babel) 
  Sr.  Manager (C&M) 
Doc. No.: CMCC260018 Errata No. 01 to Bidding Documents  Page 1 of 1 
 
EPC Package for 20MW Floating Solar PV Project at Maroda Reservoir-2, Bhilai Errata No. 01 (Commercial) to Bidding 
Document No.: CMCC260018 
Sl.  
No.  
Clause  
Reference  
ERRATA No.1  
Existing Provision  Amended Provision  
1.  IFB Clause 
1.0  
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited (NSPCL) 
invites on -line bids at Government e -
procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website - 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage 
Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-
Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid)  
from eligi ble Bidders for EPC Package for 
20MW Floating Solar PV Project at Maroda 
Reservoir-2, Bhilai  as per the scope of work 
briefly mentioned hereinafter 
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited (NSPCL) 
invites on-line bids at Government e-procurement 
portal of NIC (GePN IC) at website - 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app on 
Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. 
Envelope-I: Techno -Commercial Bid and 
Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for 
EPC Package for 20MW Floating Solar PV 
Project at Maroda Reservoir -2, Bhilai  as per 
the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter 
 