     NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise) 
Enlistment of agencies for conducting Geo-technical  
Investigation Works for Nuclear Power Projects. CNG-01
Enlistment Standard Terms & Condition  is  placaed and 
it shall remain part of this application. 

NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
1.0 NTPC Limited invites online applications from eligible domestic Agencies for the 
above-mentioned Enlistment. All the interested applicants may refer the 
Instructions available on NTPC web portal www.vdc.ntpc.co.in including Special 
terms and conditions available on web portal. All  necessary documents along with 
application shall be submitted at web-portal:   www.vdc.ntpcco.in 
Applicants shall be required to create login at the Link www.vdc.ntpc.co.in  and 
then selection of  above-mentioned package.  Details guidelines is mentioned on the 
web   portal.  
2.1 Brief scope of Enlistment 
(i) Geo-technical investigation shall be done at Four (4) stages of Project such
as Site  Selection stage (Preparatory Geo-technical Investigation), Site
Evaluation Stage  (Preliminary Geo-technical Investigation), Excavation
Consent Stage (Detailed Geo-  technical Investigation) & First Pour of
Concreting stage (Confirmatory Geo-technical Investigation).
(ii) Geotechnical investigation may be either on land or in water body (i.e. in River
/ sea). Offshore investigation (in river / sea) is also required to be done for the
design of intake well/ arrangement and approach to the intake. Based on the
investigation data, termination criteria of intake well/ well foundation is arrived
at. The data is also used to estimate depth of scour.
(iii) Drilling of holes, different test related to soil and rock, preparation of data,
Report.
(iv) Now, NTPC intends to do Enlistment of agencies for conducting Geo-
technical Investigation works for Nuclear Power Projects. Subsequent to
enlistment, NTPC shall invite tenders from enlisted suppliers for conducting
Geo-technical Investigation works for Nuclear Power Projects.
3.0 
The Enlistment Documents will be available as per following schedule or 
schedule as  
mentioned at the portal for initial enlistment: 
Start date for submission of Application 24.04.2026 
Last date for submission of Queries* 01.05.202 6 
Last date for submission of application  
Cost of Enlistment Documents  
22.05.202 6 
NIL 
* No Queries from applicants, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer
beyond the last date of  receipt of  Queries  as specified above.
# Employer may change Dates and same shall be reflected at the portal shall 
be applicable for all the applicants. 
4.0 Brief Qualifying Requirement for   Enlistment  
4.1 Technical Criteria  
4.1.1 The Applicant should have executed within the preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on the 
date notified for receipt of application, geotechnical investigation works achieving  therein the following 
progress of work: 
4.1.1.1 Boring of at least 1000 RM in soil in any one (1) month in one (1) or more concurrently 
running   contracts. 
4.1.1.2 Drilling of at least 450 RM in rock in any one (1) month in one (1) or more concurrently 
running contracts.  
4.1.2 The Applicant should have executed at least one (1) geotechnical investigation work in water 
body like in river/sea/submergence of dam/reservoir/creek/back waters, etc., within the 
preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on last date notified for receipt of application. 
4.2 Financial  Criteria: 
4.2.1  Financial Criteria of  Applicant 
The average annual turnover of the Applicant, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as  the last date notified for receipt of Application, should not be less than 
INR 2 Crore (Indian Rupees Two crore only). 
5.0 Subsequent to Enlistment,  only the Enlisted  Agencies  will  be  invited  to submit 
bids in  
respect of specific enquiry till the time enlistment is valid. 
6.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all applications or cancel/withdraw the 
‘Notice Inviting Applications’ without assigning any reasons whatsoever and in such case no 
Applicant or intending Applicant shall have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC shall 
also have the  right to verify any information/document furnished by the 
Applicant/Agency/Company/Firm and  inspect the works carried out by the 
Applicant/Agency/Company/Firm, if so required. 
7.0 Applicants who respond within due date with application as mentioned above 
against this  NIA will only be considered for Enlistment. Application for enlistment shall be 
invited through online mode only at the portal at www.vdc.ntpc.co.in This enlistment shall 
be valid for a period of Three (03) years from the date of Enlistment. 
8.0 Issuance of Enlistment Documents to any Applicant shall not construe that such 
Applicant is considered to be qualified. The Applicant shall bear all costs incurred 
in the preparation and submission of the application and other actions implied. 
NTPC shall not be  responsible or liable for such costs, regardless of the 
outcome of the Enlistment process. 
9.0 After the completion of initial vendor enlistment as mentioned above, the 
enlistment process shall again be re-opened after a period of 6 months and 
shall be kept open so that all the new vendors who could not participate in the 
enlistment process can participate and submit their application for enlistment at 
any time. 
10.0   Address for communication: 
DGM(CM) / AGM (CM) 
NTPC LIMITED.  
6th  Floor, Engineering Office Complex,
Plot No.A-8A, Sector -24, Noida – 201 301  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, State of U.P., INDIA,  
Mobile-9800090387/ 7369000306  Phone No: 0120-4946538/65 36 
Email:  ishteyaqueali@ntpc.co.in  RUPESHKUMAR@NTPC.CO.IN
Website:  https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/  or www.ntpc.co.in or www.vdc.ntpc.co.in  
Qualifying Requirement for   Enlistment   of   agencies  for  conducting  Geo-technical 
Investigation  works for Nuclear  Power Projects. 
l.0 Technical Criteria
1.1 The Applicant should have executed within the preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on the 
date notified for receipt of application, geotechnical investigation works achieving therein the 
following progress of work: 
1.1.1 Boring of at least 1000 RM in soil in any one (1) month in one (1) or more  
concurrently running contracts. 
and 
1.1.2 Drilling of at least 450 RM in rock in any one (1) month in one (1) or more  
concurrently running contracts. 
1.2 The Applicant should have executed at least one (1) geotechnical investigation work in water 
body like in river/sea/submergence of dam/reservoir/creek/back waters, etc., within the 
preceding seven (7) years reckoned as on last date notified for receipt of application. 
1.3 The Applicant should have the following manpower on its regular pay roll for minimum one 
year period reckoned as on last date notified for receipt of application, 
1.3.1 At least two (2) qualified Geotechnical engineers with PhD/M.Tech./M.E./M.S. degree 
in Geotechnical Engineering and having minimum five (5) years work experience in 
the area of geotechnical investigation. The experience certificate shall be certified by 
CEO / CFO / managing partner of the Applicant. 
OR  
1.3.2 At least one (1) qualified Geotechnical engineer with PhD/ M.Tech/M.E./M.S. degree 
in Geotechnical Engineering and having minimum five (5) years work experience in 
the area of geotechnical investigation and one (1) qualified engineering Geologist with 
M.S. /M.Sc. degree in Geology/Engineering Geology, having minimum five (5) years
work experience in the area of geotechnical investigation. The experience certificate
shall be certified by CEO I CFO I managing partner of the Applicant.
1.4 The Applicant should own or have on lease the following equipments, test setup, and  
facilities: 
1.4.1 Rotary boring rigs - Five (5) Nos. 
1.4.2 Hydraulic feed rotary core drilling rigs - Two (2) Nos. 
1.4.3 Seismic Refraction Test setup - One (1) No. 
1.4.4 Pressure meter test set up capable to apply pressure up to 80 kg/sq.cm - One (1) 
No. 
1.4.5 Laboratory set up equipped for testing the physical, engineering and chemical  
properties of soil and rock. 
2.1 Financial Criteria 
2.2 The average annual turnover of the Applicant in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the 
last date notified for receipt of application, should not be less than Rs. 2.0 Cr.  (Indian 
Rupees Two crores only). 
Notes for clause 1.1 above: 
I. If the qualifying work is completed in the last seven (7) years period specified above,
even if it has started earlier, the same will also be considered as meeting  the
qualifying requirements.
II. The word "executed" means the Applicant should have achieved the progress
specified in the QR even if the contract is not completed / closed.
Ill. For concurrent works the same month shall be considered. 
Notes for clause 1.4 above: 
a. As specified at clause 1.4.1 & 1.4.2. applicant should own 5 nos, rotary boring rigs and 2
nos. hydraulic feed rotary core drilling rigs. In case Applicant owns less than specified 5
nos. rotary boring rigs but owns additional equivalent nos. of hydraulic feed rotary core
drilling rigs (over and above the specified 2 nos,), it would be considered meeting the
qualifying requirement. However, it should own not less than 2 nos. hydraulic feed rotary
core drilling rigs as specified.
b. In case the Applicant does not own the test set up mentioned at 1.4.3 and 1.4.4 , then
tie up with Government laboratories, IITs, IISc or any NABL accredited laboratory shall
be permitted. Applicant shall submit the agreement document in the form of joint
agreement or MOU along with the application, as per the format enclosed in the bidding
documents. This document shall be submitted along with the bid, failing which the
applicant shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected.
c. The Applicant shall submit ownership documents, such as the Purchase Invoice,
Registration Document, or Lease Agreement, along with the bid. Failure to do so will result in
disqualification and rejection of the bid.
Notes for clause 2.0 above: 
a. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
b. In case, where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of bid opening are not
available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from practicing
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be  
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the company are under audit as on the date of bid 
opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered Account certifying the 
financial parameters  is  not available. 
SCOPE OF WORKS 
1. Geo-technical investigation shall to be done at Four (4) stages of Project such as Site
Selection stage (Preparatory Geo-technical Investigation), Site Evaluation Stage (Preliminary 
Geo-technical Investigation), Excavation Consent Stage (Detailed Geo-technical 
Investigation) & First Pour of Concreting stage (Confirmatory  Geo-technical  Investigation).  
2. Geotechnical investigation may be either on land or in water body (i.e. in River / sea).
Offshore investigation (in  river / sea) is also required to be done for the design of
intake well/ arrangement and approach to the intake.  Based on the investigation data,
termination criteria of intake well/ well foundation is arrived at. The data is also  used to
estimate depth of scour.
3. The contractor shall conduct a reconnaissance survey prior to commencing actual
fieldwork to familiarize their  team with the study area and assess logistical
requirements.
4. The contractor shall arrange for locating coordinates and positions of boreholes,
trial pits, and field tests,  determine reduced levels (R.L.s), and protect and maintain
established benchmarks as per accepted standards and procedures.
5. The contractor shall mobilize equipment, personnel, labour, and services necessary for
conducting field investigations, tests, laboratory analyses, and surveys effectively.
6. The contractor shall perform rotary drilling of vertical holes from natural ground level,
using SX size (150mm) for  soil and highly weathered rock, NX size (76mm) with
diamond bits for rock, and provide casing as required.
7. Identify and locate the various soil and rock strata and structural geology of the foundation
strata.
8. Conducting field tests on soil/rock.
9. Preparation of the work / test procedures and quality assurance plan (QAP) and
submission to Engineer-In-  Charge (EIC) for approval. Tests shall be conducted only
after the approval of test procedures and QAP by NTPC.
10. Transporting the identified samples to the testing lab at site and/or to outside
approved testing laboratory and remaining samples to storage location identified by the
Engineer-in-charge.
11. Conducting Field tests in soil/ rock like Standard Penetration Test (SPT) in boreholes,
Plate Load Test (PLT),  Seismic Refraction Test (SRT), Cross hole seismic test (CST),
Electrical Resistivity Test (ERT), Pressure meter  Test (PMT), Static Cone Penetration
Test (SCPT), Dynamic Cone Penetration Test (DCPT), Permeability Tests, Percolation
test, Trial Pits, Vane Shear Tests etc.
12. Conducting laboratory tests on soil and rock core samples, Ground water Sample as
specified in the specifications.
13. All the field data shall be recorded in the pro-forma recommended in Indian Standard
Codes. All the field records shall be countersigned by the Authorized representative of
Engineer-in-charge. All the investigations are to be carried out by the agency as per the
priority requirements of the Owner.
14. All the laboratory test data shall be recorded in the pro-forma recommended in the Indian
Standard Codes / ASTM
/other applicable codes and a copy of these shall be sent to the Owner every week
during the progress of  laboratory testing. Whenever desired during the progress of the
work the Owner may be present at the laboratory  where the Contractor is arranging for
execution of the laboratory tests.
15. The Contractor shall interact with the Owner to get acquainted with the different types of
structures envisaged and in assessing the load intensities on the foundations for the
various structures of the Power project to enable him to calculate the allowable bearing
pressure.
16. Preparation of detailed geo-technical investigation report as specified herein, which will
include test data, results,  data analysis, deriving safe bearing capacities through
various methods for each foundations under a group of boreholes, expert interpretation
of foundation strata, geology and foundation design parameters like safe bearing
capacity, settlement etc evaluated for the proposed structures on the basis of
investigations and laboratory and field tests including detailed liquefaction analysis. The
preliminary investigation report shall include  recommendations on foundation design
parameters to be used in design and measures to be taken to mitigate  liquefaction
potential of the site, if any.
17. The design parameters to be evaluated and to be furnished in the report shall include the
requirements as brought out in the para titled “The Report” as described in this Tech.
Spec.
18. All the reports shall be in SI units. The report should include the following items.
a) Description of geological features and site geology.
b) Exploration program and basis thereof.
c) Location plans of boreholes, field tests.
d) Bore logs.
e) Sub-surface profile Sections across the site as directed by Engineer-In-Charge, to
cover the entire stratigraphy of the area of interest.
f) Results of Filed tests.
g) Results of laboratory testing.
h) Detailed description of ground water level.
i) Recommendations on design basis geotechnical parameters such as Young’s modulus
(E), Shear modulus (G),  Max. Shear modulus (G max), Atterberg limits in all layers,
Unit weight, Bulk density including the calculations in arriving at the design foundation
parameters/ validation of the same.
j) Carrying out detailed liquefaction analysis and recommending measures to mitigate
the liquefaction potential of the site, if any.
The report shall be compared also with the format as per relevant standard applicable 
for each item under scope of the work such as IS: 6926, IS: 4078, IS: 4469, IS: 5313 etc. 
and included accordingly. 
19. The Contractor shall carry out all work as per specifications and requirement of the
project even if not explicitly  mentioned under the scope. All work shall be executed to
the satisfaction of the Engineer-in-charge.
20. All field / Lab test shall be as per detailed technical specifications. Any other work not
especially brought out but  required for successful completion of the job shall be in the
scope of the contractor.
Attachment-2 
DETAILS FOR QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS(QR) 
Technical Criteria 1.0
Sl. 
No. 
Particulars Reference 
Work #1 
Reference 
Work #2 
Reference 
Work #3 
Reference 
Work #..... 
Reference 
Work #..... 
1 Name of Work - 
2 Name, address and 
email of Client 
- 
3 LOA/PO Ref. No. and 
date of award 
- 
4 Proof of Completion 
5 Documentary evidence 
for support of above 
information are 
enclosed at …. 
- 
# Applicant may add continuation sheets for additional reference works to meet QR, if required. 
We further confirm that no change or substitution in respect of Reference Works (as declared in our Application for 
Enlistment) by new / additional work for meeting the specified Qualifying Requirements shall be offered by us. 
Date:  Name and Signature of Authorized Person 
Place:  Designation..................................................... 
Attachmnet-3  
DETAILS FOR QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS(QR) 
Financial Criteria 2.0 
In order to satisfy the requirements stipulated at Clause 2.1.a of Qualifying Requirements , We confirm 
that our average annual turnover*, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the last date 
notified for receipt of Application, is not less than INR 2Crore (Indian Rupees Two crore only).
In support of above, we are enclosing audited financial statements. 
S. 
No. 
Financial Year Annual Turnover (INR 
in Million) 
1 FY 1 
2 FY 2 
3 FY 3 
4 Average Annual Turnover  for  the  preceding  three  (3) 
Financial Years as on the last date notified for receipt of 
application 
5 We  have  enclosed Audited  financial  statements  for  the 
last 3  financial years 
** Yes/ No 
* Other income is not considered for arriving at annual turnover
Date:  Name and Signature of Authorized Person 
Place:  Designation..................................................... 
APPENDIX-3 TO ATTACHMENT – 5
PROFORMA OF CERTIFICATE FROM THE CEO/CFO OF THE  COMPANY 
Dear Sirs, 
1.0 I, Mr. ............................... (CEO of the Company / CFO of the Company)* confirm and 
undertake that the Financial results of the company for the preceding financial year to be submitted are 
under audit as on the date of application submission and the certificate from the practicing chartered 
accountant certifying the financial parameters for the preceding financial year is not available. 
 Yours faithfully 
 (Signature) 
Date :  (Name & Designation).......................................... 
Place :  (Name of the Company) ........................... 
Attachment-6
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Dear Sirs, 
We hereby furnish the following additional information: 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
a. .......................................
b. .......................................
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Date:  Name of Authorized Person....................... 
Place:  Designation................................................ 
Clause No. Existing Amended as 
28.0 
REVIEW OF 
ENLISTED 
VENDORS 
FOR POOR 
PERFORMA
NCE, 
FRAUDULE
NT ACTS: 
In case of unsatisfactory performance 
of the enlisted vendors, respective 
Station shall take necessary action 
against the Vendor for withholding/ 
banning business dealings, in line with 
NTPC banning policy. 
Vendor shall be de-enlisted for the 
balance period of his enlistment if Pan 
NTPC banning action taken against any 
vendor. 
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor 
is found to have been involved in any 
fraudulent activities like submission of 
fake credentials/ document/ 
information as deﬁned in NTPC Fraud 
prevention policy/ banning policy 
during enlistment process of VEC, VEC 
shall take necessary action in line with 
Fraud Prevention Policy. 
In case of unsatisfactory performance of the 
enlisted vendors, respective Station shall 
take necessary action against the Vendor for 
withholding/ banning business dealings, in 
line with NTPC banning policy. 
If any vendor is debarred/banned by NTPC as 
per NTPC's policy for Debarment/ banning 
from business dealings, the vendor shall be 
de- enlisted for the period for which the 
debarment/banning would be operative as 
per the debarment/banning order. 
Post lifting of debarment /banning order  
such vendor's enlistment status will be 
restored for the balance period ( if any ) of 
enlistment in which the agency was enlisted 
pre-banning. 
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor is 
found to have been involved in any 
fraudulent activities like submission of fake 
credentials/ document/ information as 
deﬁned in NTPC Fraud prevention policy/ 
banning policy during enlistment process of 
VEC, VEC shall take necessary action in line 
with Fraud Prevention Policy. 
Amendment in Standard terms and conditions clause no 28 (Amendment no. 3)
Clause No. Existing Amended as 
7.0 ENLISTMENT 
CALENDAR: 
In order to  optimize the enlistment 
process, vendor enlistment & up 
gradation of each enlistment group 
shall be done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end on 
31st December. A period of six weeks 
shall be allotted against each MEG/ 
CEG, for inviting applications from 
vendors. 
In order to optimize the enlistment 
process, vendor enlistment & up 
gradation of each enlistment group 
shall be done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end 
on 31st December. Each MEG/ CEG 
shall be allotted a period for inviting 
applications from vendors.  
11.0 CUT OFF DATE 
TO APPLY FOR 
ENLISTMENT: 
Vendor enlistment & up gradation for 
each enlistment group shall be done 
once in year as per the ‘Enlistment 
Calendar’. The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ 
shall commence from 01st April and 
end on 31st December. A period of six 
weeks shall be allotted against each 
MEG / CEG, for inviting applications 
from vendors.  
Vendor enlistment & up gradation 
for each enlistment group shall be 
done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment  Calendar’.  The 
‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end 
on 31st December. Each MEG/ CEG 
shall be allotted a period for inviting 
applications from vendors.  
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
Amendment in Standard terms and conditions clause no. 7 & 11 (Amendment no 2)
Amendment in Standard Terms and Conditions clause no 9 (Amendment no 1)
Clause 
No: 9.0 HOW TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
Clause 
Amended 
as: 
In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the 
verification and certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from 
any of the TPIAs as mentioned at NTPC tender website 
(https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under the tab:  
“Policy Docs”  “Policy for Document Authentication Process in Tenders of 
NTPC Ltd”.  
However, Applicants must verify the accreditation validity of the designated 
TPIA before proceeding to engage them for document certification.  
The following website may be referred for contact details and accreditation validity 
of above referred TPIAs: 
https://nabcb.qci.org.in/inspection-body/ 
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, 
which is not certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the applicant, as 
per the format enclosed, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the 
purpose of evaluation, and the Application shall be liable for rejection. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS (STC) AND 
GUIDELINESFOR ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS  
1.0 INTRODUCTION: 
NTPC Limited (A Government of India Enterprise), a Maharatna Company is India's largest power utility 
with present installed capacity of more than 86,000 MW with 27 Coal based, 7 Gas/ Liquid fuel based, 1 
Hydro Power Plant and 21 Joint Venture / Subsidiary Power Stations etc,. These projects are located in 
various geographical locations across the country. 
2.0 MAJOR BUSINESS OPPORUNITY: 
The requirement of spares, consumables & works contract for NTPC power plants, offers major business 
opportunity to the vendors & contract executing agencies. 
3.0 SCOPE OF ENLISTMENT: 
NTPC Limited is in the process of online vendor enlistment, for Procurements & Contracts (covering O&M, 
Non O&M / Service departments and Civil works). However, NTPC at its discretion may use this vendor 
enlistment for other procurement activities also. The intent of this enlistment is to identify and enlist 
prospective vendors /  contractors who meet Technical Qualifying Requirements envisaged. This 
enlistment will be applicable for all running NTPC Stations/ Subsidiaries/ Joint Ventures. Vendor 
enlistment process is a  continuous process with the option to add / delete/ modify any Material 
Enlistment Group (MEG) / Contract Enlistment Group (CEG) at any time without any prior notice. Similarly, 
any vendor desirous to get their names enlisted/ updated themselves in the approved list can do so as per 
Enlistment Calendar. However, such request shall be evaluated in the subsequent cycle only. 
Enlistments shall be done for Regular Contracts/ Procurements and also Mega Contracts/ Procurements 
of Estimated Cost as per following categories for NTPC Stations/Projects: 
Category -1: 
(Regular Enlistments) 
CEGs upto 4 Crs 
MEGs upto 15 Crs 
Category -2: 
(Mega Cases) 
CEGs above 4 Crs & upto Rs 50 Crs 
MEGs above 15 Crs & upto Rs 50 Crs 
Enlistment will be done only for Manufacturers. However, for exceptional cases, Suppliers or Authorized 
Dealers / Agents etc. can be considered for enlistment subject to MEG / CEG specific provision of qualifying 
requirement. Decision of NTPC in this regard shall be final and binding. 
 roup shall be done once in year as per the ‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
Clause has been modified as per Amendment-2 
 he ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall commence from 01st April and end on 31st December. A period 
of 
4.0 STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS (STC) FOR ENLISTMENT: 
This document will be applicable for enlistment of vendors both for services including consultancy 
& non consultancy and supply of materials, as identified / to be identified time to time, as per the 
requirement of various stations of NTPC. The document explains the details regarding 
the modality and terms & conditions for enlistment.  
5.0 MATERIALS/ WORKS FOR WHICH ENLISTMENT IS REQUIRED: 
Material identified for enlistment are segregated into various groups termed as Material Enlistment 
Group (MEG). Similarly, the works packages are classified as Contract Enlistment Group 
(CEG). Updated/ active list of MEGs and CEGs under enlistment are available at the home page of 
website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/  
Technical qualifying requirements to be met by applicants against each MEG / CEG, are also available 
in the website.  
6.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE FOR VENDOR ENLISTMENT: 
Vendor Enlistment Cell (VEC) of NTPC, situated at Sector-24, Naya Raipur (C.G.), shall be the 
Responsibility Centre for enlistment of MEGs / CEGs as per Enlistment Calendar.  
The address and contact details of VEC along with the details of MEGs/ CEGs, are available at 
website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/  
Apart from regular Enlistments, Special group(s) may be published in the portal for 
enlistment/ empanelment/ registration. For such groups, Responsibility Centres shall be as 
indicated in the Enlistment Notification itself.  
7.0 ENLISTMENT CALENDAR: 
 n order to optimize the enlistment process, vendor enlistment & up gradation of each enlistmen  
8.0 UPLOADING MEGs/ CEGs & PUBLICITY: 
List of MEGs/ CEGs with relevant details as mentioned above shall be updated at website 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ time to time.  
Vendor Enlistment Cell will publish the abridged version of the notice for enlistment for the MEGs/ CEGs 
on our websites https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ & www.ntpctender.com as per the Enlistment Calendar. 
ase documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the ve 
ification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIA 
Société Générale de Surveillance / SGS India Pvt. Ltd.(SGS)  
Gulf Lloyds Industrial Services (India) Pvt. Ltd (GLISPL) 
International Certification Services (ICS)  
TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
 
 
Clause has been modified as per 
Amendment-1 
9.0 HOW TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
Interested potential vendors / contractors are advised to regularly visit the website 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ for updates and apply online for the MEG/ CEG of their interest and for which 
they would meet corresponding Technical Qualifying Requirement mentioned against the MEG/CEG. 
Interested vendors are to apply and upload / submit only online the relevant documents (credentials) 
as required for enlistment against corresponding MEG/ CEG.  
No fee is required to be paid for enlistment. No offline application would be entertained by NTPC. 
It is required to submit applications with digitally signed relevant credentials by the Authorized 
Signatory. The same should be uploaded on the website for vendor enlistment in respect of individual 
MEG/ CEG as per required documents/ details and corresponding specified QR.  
It should be clearly noted by the applicant that while applying for vendor enlistment on website, the 
basic and financial information need to be filled up only once. The MEG/ CEG related information 
should be filled up for each MEG/CEG separately. The applicant can apply for as many MEGs/CEGs as 
he wishes, provided that he has required technical qualification.  
Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which 
Applicants submit, will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the 
Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
Applicants, required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the documents, 
such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc., duly 
certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or 
specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Applicants can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Auditor 
certifying the data required in support to their past experiences.  
Such applicant shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their 
Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA along with a certificate regarding verification of authenticity 
of documents as per the format placed at Annexure-IIIA (Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ 
or Annexure-IIIB (Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the applicant shall be 
digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
. TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group) 
. Intertek India Pvt. Ltd. 
. Moody International (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
. RINA India Pvt. Ltd. 
0. Competent Inspectorate and Consultants LLP 
he following website may be referred for contact details of above ten (10) TPIAs: 
ttp://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php 
ny document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is no 
ertified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the applicant, as per the format enclosed, shal 
ot be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the application shall b  
The Applicant shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials verified & certified by their 
Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs pertaining to third party verification and 
certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be borne by the Applicant. NTPC shall have 
no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute 
between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor.  
10.0 BASIS FOR ENLISTMENT: 
NTPC shall evaluate the credentials uploaded by the applicant to determine as to whether technical 
aspects are in accordance with the Qualifying Requirements set for the respective MEG/CEG. 
Subsequently, at the sole discretion of NTPC, physical assessment of establishment (s)/ verification 
of document (s)/ may also be carried out, if felt necessary by NTPC. Vendor should not have any 
objection to such physical assessment / verification etc. All technically qualified vendors shall be 
enlisted against respective MEG/ CEG and their annual turnover and/or execution capability shall be 
mapped in the system for further usage. The decision of NTPC in this regard shall be final and binding. 
NTPC shall evaluate only those cases, which are complete in all respects, and which are prima-facie 
found to be qualified based on the responses given. Any incomplete request or deficiency of 
document(s) will run the risk of rejection. In the process of vendor enlistment, NTPC may seek 
additional information/ clarification and vendor must be ready to furnish promptly any such 
information, so asked for.  
Any vendor currently under NCLT/ NCLAT or debarred/ banned/ blacklisted/ Under Withholding/ 
Under Suspension of Business Dealing on Pan NTPC basis shall not be considered for enlistment. 
However, such vendors may be considered for enlistment only after expiry of the debarment/ 
banning/ blacklisting/ Withholding/ Suspension period. If any vendor, is debarred/ banned in 
participating at any tender for working/ supplying at any particular station/ region of NTPC, shall 
continue to remain debarred/banned for that station/ region even after enlistment on PAN NTPC  
 
 
 
9 
Clause has been modified as per 
 
T Amendment-1 
 
 
 

endor enlistment & up gradation for each enlistment group shall be done once in year as per th 
Enlistment Calendar’. The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall commence from 01st April and end on 31s 
ecember. A period of six weeks shall be allotted against each MEG / CEG, for inviting application 
rom vendors.  
 
 
 
Clause has been modified as per Amendment-2
basis, till expiry of banning/blacklisting period or else banning order is revoked by concerned station/ 
region. 
11.0 CUT OFF DATE TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
Identification of MEGs / CEGs for a particular six-week period in the aforesaid calendar shall be 
notified in the portal time to time. Vendors intending to get themselves enlisted within the cycle 
need to apply online within cutoff date. All applications received within stipulated cutoff date shall 
be evaluated progressively.  
Vendor should ensure that only relevant documents are uploaded. After the cutoff date and time for 
any particular evaluation cycle, vendor will not be permitted for any such change. In case, during 
evaluation of credentials, if any additional or relevant documents is required by NTPC, the same 
should be uploaded online in response to the time-bound clarification(s) sought. 
12.0 INSTRUCTION FOR APPLYING ONLINE: 
Interested vendors may open the website ( https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ ) and create USER-ID themselves for 
enlistment by filling USER-ID creation form online. System generated e-mail shall be sent to the vendor 
giving ID & password for authentication & activation. Vendors shall log in to the website with this ID and 
password. After log in, the system shall ask for change of password, ID remaining same. Vendors, in their 
own interest should change the password. 
After log in, the page opened shall show the details required which should be correctly filled in. It is 
required that the digitally signed (by the authorized signatory) document of the relevant credential shall 
be uploaded in “PDF form” as per the instructions shown on the page. Star (*) marked fields are 
mandatory. 
13.0 HOW TO FILL THE APPLICATION FOR ENLISTMENT: 
For creation of User-ID, following information has to be provided: 
a) Notice Inviting Application (NIA) No: Refers to NTPC NIA No., if any. Otherwise, leave it blank.
b) NTPC SAP VENDOR CODE: Existing vendors having NTPC SAP vendor code may fill their respective
SAP vendor code. Other vendors may leave it blank.
c) NAME OF THE ORGANISATION: Registered Name of the company to be filled.
d) Email ID: Refers to email ID of the applicant vendor, which will be registered with the website.
User ID, password will be sent in that e-mail only. Future communication will be made through
this email ID & loss of password etc will also be reset with the help of this e-mail. As far as possible,
company specific e-mail ID shall be used, as this would be used for all future communication. In
case of employee specific e-mail ID complications may arise in future on separation of the 
concerned employee. 
e) Landline no: Telephone no with STD Code to be filled.
f) Address for communication: City, region, country, postal code to be filled.
g) Name of the contact person: The person responsible for future contact, preferably, the authorized
signatory in whose name the Power of Attorney is issued.
h) Mobile no: Cell no. of contact person to be filled.
On submitting the above information, system generated User ID and PASSWORD will be mailed to the 
email ID provided above. 
The vendor has to use this USER ID and PASSWORD and log in to the website for providing further 
information and uploading of required documents and credentials. 
This is explained below in brief: 
A. Name of Authorized Signatory- The person authorized by the company to sign the documents on
their behalf. The competent person of the company should issue the power of attorney in
person’s name.
B. Mobile no: Cell no of authorized signatory.
C. LETTER OF UNDERTAKING (LOU)- The format is available on the home page of website
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Letter of Undertaking (LOU) should be executed on stamp paper of
requisite value. Digitally Signed (by the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same
should be uploaded online along with their application.
D. POWER OF ATTORNEY- Power of Attorney format given on the home page of website
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Power Of Attorney (POA) should be executed on stamp paper of
requisite value. Digitally Signed (by the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same
should be uploaded online along with their application.
E. Choose Option for enlistment- For Supply or works or both as per their applicable area of business
and credentials.
F. Permanent account no., GSTIN - PAN & GSTIN of the Company. Copy to be uploaded.
G. Other information as asked to be filled.
H. PF Code- Applicable for works contact category only. Copy of relevant certificate to be uploaded.
I. Details of Purchase orders received from NTPC to be filled.
J. MSE Reg no- As applicable Copy of relevant certificate to be uploaded.
K. Choose works category-Vendor has to select the work category such as: Mechanical works,
Electrical works, C&I works, Civil works, Miscellaneous works or other works.
L. Choose supplier type- The vendor has to choose supplier type such as: Manufacturer, Supplier,
authorized dealer, agent etc.
M. Type of company: Proprietorship, partnership etc to be selected.
N. ISO9000, ISO 14000, ISO18500, SA8000 Certification to be confirmed. Copy of relevant Certificate
to be uploaded.
O. Annual Turn Over figure paid up share capital, reserves & surpluses for last three financial years
to be filled and audited balance sheet and profit & loss statement with Unique Document
Identification Number (UDIN), to be uploaded.
P. Date of incorporation- to be mentioned and certificate of incorporation to be uploaded.
Q. Purchase order no, date, awarding company name, and invoice details- are to be filled. It may be
noted that three highest purchase orders copy received during the last five years to be mentioned
and uploaded. It will decide their execution capability. The purchase orders mentioned should be
for the same/similar item(s)/works for which vendor are registering for enlistment. Similar work
definition for a particular CEG/MEG will be available in Qualifying Requirement document.
Documents should be duly certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory
Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) , failing which the
application for enlistment is liable for rejection.
R. Select the correct MEG /CEG as per area of business and credentials being uploaded.
S. Change of entity of organization: Details to be filled and uploaded.
T. (*) is mandatory fields
U. Proof of being a manufacturer – UDYAM Registration/ NSIC/SSI/MSME registration certificate/BIS
license / ISO certificate/ Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department/ any
other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material.
V. Acceptance of “Fraud prevention policy” and “NTPC banning policy”.
W. Basic order value and basic executed value of the purchase orders received and executed, other
income etc are to be filled.
X. Information regarding referral to BIFR, Debarment/ Banning/ Blacklisting by Govt/ PSU/ any
Company etc, Debarment/ Banning/ Withholding/ Suspension by NTPC.
Y. GePNIC ID- All prospective applicants are required to register themselves on Government e- 
procurement system of NIC on https://eprocurentpc.nic.in and GePNIC vendor ID is to be
provided.
14.0 IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS: 
I. Fee: There will be no fee applicable for submitting application for enlistment.
II. The applicant is required to correctly select the Material Enlistment Group (MEG) / Contract
Enlistment Group (CEG) for which they intend to get enlisted. They should read the Technical
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for enlistment for the MEG / CEG carefully. The documents required
must be copied, signed by the authorized signatory, stamped with the company seal and scanned
copy of the same should be uploaded in PDF form.
III. Documents which are mandatory must be uploaded duly certified and verified for authenticity
from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection
Agency (TPIA), failing which the application for enlistment is liable for rejection.
IV. Incomplete applications are liable for rejection.
V. NTPC reserves the right to verify the authenticity of the information / documents furnished as
well as accept / reject application/s in full or part without assigning any reason whatsoever. No
correspondence/ queries will be entertained in this regard.
15.0 ONLINE DOCUMENTS: 
After filling all the required details and uploading the documents online, applicants have to submit the 
applications online. 
The “Power of attorney” and “Declaration regarding authenticity of the credentials i.e. Letter of 
Undertaking (LOU)” are required to be executed on stamp paper of requisite value. Digitally Signed (by 
the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same should be uploaded online along with their 
application. 
All applications received till the cutoff date shall be evaluated progressively. If found eligible, they will be 
considered for enlistment. 
The name of the responsibility centre for processing of the enlistment against each MEG/CEG is 
mentioned in the website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Vendors should make sure that the submission of 
application is completed well in advance to avoid last minute rush. 
16.0 OFFLINE DOCUMENTS: 
No hardcopy is required to be sent / submitted while submitting the application. 
All the uploaded documents are to be kept with vendor in original and shall have to be provided whenever 
asked for. Failing to do so, may lead to action inline to the NTPC Withholding & Banning policy. 
17.0 EVALUATION CRITERIA & PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS: 
17.1 Application received up to predetermined cutoff date shall be considered for evaluation. The 
received applications evaluation shall start only after notified cutoff date in the priority as decided by 
NTPC. Submitted documents in support of execution of similar supply/ works shall be verified as 
per requirement by the evaluation committee from the respective certificate issuing 
agency. The applicants meeting the technical qualifying requirements  shall  be  shortlisted  
for  enlistment. 
17.2 Physical Assessment: 
For the vendors shortlisted by the respective evaluation committee, at the sole discretion of NTPC, 
physical assessment of establishment (s)/ verification of document (s)/ may also be carried out, if felt 
necessary by NTPC. Vendor should not have any objection to such physical assessment / verification etc. 
The observations/ finding of the assessment committee should also be signed by the vendor being 
assessed. 
17.3 Mapping of data of enlisted vendors (Average Annual Turnover and Execution Capability): 
Average annual turnover and Execution Capability value will be mapped against each 
technically qualified vendor. The vendor has to submit financial details and upload 
supporting documents which shall be the basis for ascertaining their financial capability as 
mentioned in evaluation criteria clause no 20. Presently no pre-determined financial 
criteria (Average Annual Turnover) and execution capability criteria are being stipulated. 
However, all applicants have to upload necessarily the following documents: 
i) Average Annual Turnover (AATO): Audited Balance sheet and Profit & loss account for last
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of submission of application.
Audited Balance sheet and Profit & Loss statement of the company giving annual sales turn
over during preceding three completed financial years reckoned from the date of submission
of application for enlistment, has to be furnished.
Any Certificate(s) / Financial  Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant 
of India (ICAI), which Applicants submit, will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute  of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI). 
From this, Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of the company shall be worked out and shall be 
recorded against the MEG/CEG for the enlisted vendors. This will be the eligibility limit for 
Average Annual Turnover of the respective enlisted vendor for sending tender enquiry later 
(but during the validity period of enlistment only). 
ii) Execution Capability (EC): Three Purchase Orders of highest executed value for similar
item(s) / works during last Five (05) years reckoned from the date of submission of application
for enlistment along with documents to ascertain the execution of Purchase Orders submitted
i.e. Copies of invoices, LR, e-way bills, completion certificate from the client, have to be
furnished. The eligibility limit of the vendors for execution capability shall be worked out as
follows:-
(a) Determination of Execution Capability (EC):
Maximum three work order s as per the definiti on of similar work s shall be considered as 
credential for calculation of the execution capability (EC) in the following manner: 
If the vendor gives one PO wit h highest executed value of P, then the vendor will be eligible 
for tender enquiry up to the cost estimate limited to value equal to "1.25xP" subject to other 
conditions. 
In case of two POs submitted with highest executed values P & Q (where P>Q), then higher of 
the two figures obtained from "1.25xP and 2xQ" shall be the limit of cost estimate up to which 
the  vendor  is  eligible  for  tender  enquiry  subject  to  other  conditions. 
If the company furnishes three Purchase order s with highest executed value as P, Q & R 
(where P>Q>R), then out of the figures obtained from: "1.25xP, 2xQ and 2.5xR", the highest 
value is the limit of cost estimate up to which the vendor is eligible for tender enquiry subject 
to other conditions. 
(b) Selection of enlisted vendor s for sending tender enquiry: When actu al requirement
emerges, based on the estimated cost and completion period required, selection of eligible
vendors from amongst enlisted vendors shall be done as mentioned at Para No. 20.0 below.
Notes: 
1. Vendors, in their own interest, should furnish the orders with highest value(s) executed by them
along with documentary proof for the execution of said orders. It may also to be understood that such
past execution values shall determine their execution capability and eligibility to consider for sending
tender enquiry against the material / work later.
2. Documentary evidence of execution of supply of similar item in the past, only in the name of the
organization  which  is  submitting  the  application  for  enlistment  shall  be  considered.
3. For the purpose of Enlistment, Applicants shall be evaluated on the basis of required supporting
documents submitted for Technical Requirements along with financial documents, order copies &
execution proof etc. Even though an Applicant may satisfy the above requirements, he would be liable
to disqualification if he has made misleading or false representation or deliberately concealed the
information  in  the  forms,  statements  and  enclosures  required  in  the  application.
4. Merely Submission of application form by vendor cannot be construed to mean that the vendor is
qualified & entitled for issue of any / all tenders by NTPC.
5. If applying for upgradation of Execution Capability and or AATO, applicant should upload all the
purchase order and financial related documents afresh. Documents uploaded in earlier cycle may not
be taken into cognizance while evaluating the application.
18.0 VALIDITY OF ENLISTMENT: 
Vendors shall be enlisted for three (03) years from the date of approval, subject to fulfillment of 
the terms & conditions.   
19.0 CERTIFICATE OF VENDOR ENLISTMENT: 
After approval, Certificate of Enlistment indicating enlistment details and terms & conditions 
shall be made available to the enlisted vendors through mail . 
21.0 RENEWAL OF ENLISTMENT: 
Before completion of t hree (3) years, already enlisted vendors can apply with their fresh 
credentials for enlistment for a further period. If their credentials are found in order, their 
enlistment shall be done accordingly. Their enlistment shall be valid for t wo years from the date of 
approval. It may be noted th at sthe  yste m will autom atically dele te ethe  nlisted vendo r after ex 
piry of its validity.
Therefore, Ve andor  t i their  nterest shou ld take appr opriate ac tion to updat e their records / 
resub mit t he applicat ion w ell in adva nce so as n ot to fa ce a ny su ch eventualit ies to delet ion of their names 
from the approved list and stop getting tender enquiries from NTPC.  
22.0 E-TENDER (GePNIC & GeM) REQUIREMENT FROM ENLISTED VENDOR: 
NTPC is procuring goods & services through e-tender mode. Enquiry is issued either in Government e- 
procurement system of NIC (GePNIC) or in Government e- marketplace (GeM) portal. Hence, vendors 
are advised to register themselves on GePNIC portal https://eprocurentpc.nic.in and https://gem.gov.in/. 
They require CLASS III Digital Signature (with Organization name), for participation in e-tender. Bidders 
will not be able to receive & participate in e-tender if they do not have the required digital certificate. 
For further details, vendor may visit our GePNIC portal and GeM portals. 
23.0 FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY: 
Provisions of NTPC Fraud Prevention policy shall apply for the enlistments being done. The applicant 
shall strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention policy of NTPC.  
Copy of the same is available at portal (https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ ). 
24.0 DEBARMENT / WITHHOLDING / BANNING POLICY: 
Copy of the "Policy & Procedure for Debarment from Business Dealings" of NTPC available at portal 
(https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ ). 
28.0 REVIEW OF ENLISTED VENDORS FOR POOR PERFORMANCE, FRAUDULENT ACTS: In case of unsatisfactory performance of the enlisted vendors, respective Station shall take necessary 
action against the Vendor for withholding/ banning business dealings, in line with NTPC banning 
policy. 
Vendor shall be de-enlisted for the balance period of his enlistment if Pan NTPC banning action taken 
against any vendor.  
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor is found to have been involved in any fraudulent activities 
like submission of fake credentials/ document/ information as defined in NTPC Fraud prevention  
Clause has been modified as 
per Amendment-3 
policy/ banning policy during enlistment process of VEC, VEC shall take necessary action in line with 
Fraud Prevention Policy.  
25.0 DELISTING OF ENLISTED VENDORS 
The enliste d vendo r shall be de-liste d from the approve d Vendo r list for the balanc e validit y period 
of enlistment on th e followin g ground:-  
 If any enlis ted ven dor fo r a partic u lar M E G / wo rks pack age d oes not partici p ate at le ast o nce in 
Three years in any of the tenders issued to them from any NTPC stations/ SSC/USSC, then they may 
be delisted from the approved Vendor List.  
26.0 SUBCONTRACTING PROVISION FOR WORKS PACKAGES 
The enli sted contra ctor s hall only be gi ven the aw ard ba se d on evalua tio n of the bids. Generally 
subcontr a cti ng o f the work wil l no t be perm itted for site awa rded w orks pack ages. How ever, in 
cer tain excepti o nal ca ses as per site spe cific require m en t it may be allo wed w ith the appro val of 
Head of Station but the due reasons are to be recorded by site in such cases.  
However , 100% back to back subcontractin g will not be allowe d in any case. 
 If any subcontr a ct or is fo und execu ting the cont ract awa rde d to the enli sted contra ctor without 
app ro val of NTPC, a ction a gains t the main contr acto r w ill be take n for withho l ding/ ba nning of 
business dealings as per NTPC Policy.  
27.0 COURT OF JURIDICTION: 
The Courts at Delhi shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to entertain and try any dispute relating to 
online vendor Enlistment process of NTPC.  
28.0 SUBMISSION OF UNDERTAKING PERTAINING TO GEM REGISTRATION AND PARTICIPATION IN 
NTPC LTD TENDERS: 
Applicants are required to submit an Undertaking pertaining to GeM Registration and participation 
in NTPC Ltd Tenders, as per format enclosed as Annexure-IV, along with their application for Vendor 
Enlistment.  
29.0 Conflict of Interest: 
An enlisted vendor during their participation in a Tender as a bidder, should ensure that they do not 
h ave con flic t of inter est w ith ot her bidd ers. S uch con flic t of inter est can l ea d to anti-competitive 
pract ice s to the detrim en t of Emplo y er’s intere sts. The crit eria b ase d on w hi ch a bi dder shall be 
considered to have a conflict of interest with one or more parties in the bidding process, shall be as 
per provisions of the bidding documents of the specific Tender.  

During the bidding process/bids invited amongst the enlisted parties, the bidder shall have to submit 
their acceptance/compliance of provisions of Bidding Documents, regarding “Conflict of Interest”.  
In case it is established that Bidder has provided any false information in pursuance of the aforesaid 
Clause, while competing for the contract, then its bid shall be rejected and EMD/bid security shall be 
forfeited. In case of a successful bidder, if it is established that the Bidder has not complied with 
terms of aforesaid Clause, during execution of contract, this would be considered as fraudulent 
practice as mentioned in para 5.1 (j) of “Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings” and shall be 
dealt accordingly.  
GENERAL NOTES  
i. Unique fields are not editable.
ii. Only sales / works Turnover shall be considered as annual Turnover. Other income shall not be
considered.
iii. The vendor enlistment is an independent activity which has no link with tendering at any NTPC
stations/ SSC/ USSC. During enlistment process, focus will be on selection of competent and capable
vendors. This process shall not be influenced by any specific ongoing tender at any site of NTPC. Once
enlistment is approved and uploaded, the enlisted vendors uploaded will be considered for tendering
for subsequent cases.
iv. For MEG, Basic value of PO shall be taken into account to determine execution capability. For
Contract / Services only the net contract value shall be considered. Any separate re-imbursement /
escalation shall not be considered.
v. NTPC reserves the right to correct the input given by vendor in respect to turnover and PO / WO
execution details based on the documents. Decision of NTPC in regard to any interpretation including
similar work / similar item shall be final and binding.
vi. NTPC reserves the right to cancel the enlistment at any time with prior notice to the enlisted
vendors due to change in QR or Technical specifications or any reason in the interest of NTPC.
Preferably 6 months advance notice shall be given to the enlisted vendors and during that period
fresh enlistment based on the revised QR & Tech specifications may be completed so that
immediately after the cutoff date, procurement can take place based on the newly enlisted vendors.
vii. Vendor is free to seek clarification / interpretation/ scope / similar item etc before submitting the
application for enlistment.
viii. After enlistment, in the event of any change in status / credential, it will be the responsibility of
the enlisted vendor to inform NTPC timely.
ix. The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and Average Annual Turn Over (AATO)
of enlisted vendors shall be Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs). If any vendor does not submit the
required documents so that their Execution Capability exceeds Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs),
such vendor shall not be considered for enlistment even if they meet the Qualifying Requirement
(QR) of that MEG/ CEG.
( In case of any conflict between Standard Terms and Conditions available on www.vdc.ntpc.co.in  
and this document, condition mention in this document will prevail)
Documents I Details available on Home Page for vendor enlistment 
https://vdc. ntpc.co. in/ 
1. STC for Enlistment
2. MEGs details
3. CEGs details.
4. Format-LOU
5. Format-POA
6. Fraud Prevention Policy
7. Banning Policy
8. HELP Document



ANNEXURE-1: LOU Format 
"LETTER OF UNDERTAKING" (LOU) 
(To be executed on non-judicial stamp paper of Rs. 100/-) 
Date: --.--. ----
Subject: Application for Enlistment 
Dear Sir, 
1. I, son/ Daughter/ wife of ----------- residing at
------------------- is authorized and empowered to make proposal for
vendor enlistment on behalf of M/s. ____________ with registered office at
---------------------J a (proprietor ship I partnership I company
registered under company act). Details of (Proprietor/ Partners/ Directors) of the organizations are as
below:-
Name �on/ Daughter, Residential Address Mention Proprietor/ Partner I Director 
Wife of as applicable) 
2. The Power of attorney as applicable issued by the competent authority in my company/ organization,
authorizing me to sign & upload enlistment documents, is attached herewith.
3. I/ We hereby confirm that I will access the designated web site of NTPC for vendor enlistment with computer
generated User ID and given password changed by me. I also confirm that I shall take all possible measures
to prevent any unauthorized access to vendor enlistment portal on behalf of my company.
4. I/ We have read and examined and understood the requirements of NIA, MEG/CEG specific qualifying
requirement etc. I/ We agree to accept all terms and conditions and subsequent to which desired
information being furnished as desired in the following forms for Enlistment:-
a. Company Information (KYC)
b. Financial details as per Balance Sheet e.g. Turnover, Profit & Loss, etc
c. MEG/CEG related Qualifying requirement (QR) & QR questionnaire
d. Execution Capability (Highest 3 Nos PO/ Work orders execution details for similar work)
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301


ANNEXURE-11/A 
Undertaking from Independent Statutory Auditor 
(On letter head digitally signed by a person duly authorized to Sign on behalf of the Statutory Auditor) 
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
DATE: 
Subject: Authentication of veracity of documents submitted by M/s ........................................ in 
support of credentials for Enlistment 
Ref: NIA no. I Enlistment Cycle no: ...................... . 
Name of the MEG/ CEG: ............................................ . 
Dear Sir, 
M/s .. ........................... ......................................... (hereinafter called Applicant) having Registered office at 
................................................................................ intend to participate in above referred Enlistment of NTPC Ltd. 
We, M/s .............................................................. has been appointed as Statutory Auditor for the Applicant i.e. M/s 
................ ...................... .................. .. (Relevant documents on our appointment along with ADT form-1 attached). 
The Enlistment condition stipulates that the Applicant shall submit supporting Documents pertaining to 
Technical Qualifying Requirement duly verified and certified by Statutory Auditor. 
In this regard, it is hereby confirmed that we have examined the following documents, which are also 
attached with this letter. The same has been verified from the Original Documents and/ or Client for 
authenticity (Strike off, whichever is not applicable). 
We hereby confirm that the following documents are found to be genuine and authentic. 
1. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ............ ... ..... .. (name of Documents) 
2. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
3 .. ............. . 
All the aforesaid documents have been digitally signed by us using official DSC (Digital Signature Certificate) 
as a certificate of authenticity. 
*Further, we have examined the books of accounts, records, and other relevant documents, along with other
necessary information and explanations furnished by M/s .. ......................................................... .
(Applicant) .......... and hereby certify following: .................................................... . 
This certificate is issued at the request of M/s ................... (Applicant) for the purpose of participating in Enlistment. 
Thanking you, 
• Strike off, whichever is not applicable.
ANNEXURE-1118 
Undertaking from Third Party Inspection Agency 
(on letter head digitally signed by a person duly authorized to Sign on behalf of the TPIA) 
Dear Sir, 
DATE: 
Subject: Authentication of veracity of documents submitted by M/s.................................. ....... in 
support of credentials for Enlistment 
Ref: NIA no. I Enlistment Cycle no: ...................... . 
Name of the MEG/ CEG: ............ ................................ . 
M/s .. ............... .................................................. .... (hereinafter calied Applicant) having Registered office at 
................................................................................ intend to participate in above referred Enlistment of NTPC Ltd . 
The Enlistment condition stipulates that the Applicant shall submit supporting Documents pertaining to Technical 
Qualifying Requirement duly verified and certified by a specified independent Third Party Inspection Agency as per 
the list mentioned in the Enlistment documents. 
In this regard, it is hereby confirmed that we have examined the following documents, which are also attached 
with this letter. The same has been verified from the Original Documents and/ or Client for authenticity (Strike 
off, whichever is not applicable). 
We hereby confirm that the following documents are found to be genuine and authentic. 
1. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
2. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
3 .. ............. . 
All the aforesaid documents have been digitally signed by us using official DSC (Digital Signature Certificate) as a 
certificate of authenticity. 
We further confirm that we neither have any vested interest in aforesaid Enlistment nor have any conflict of 
interest in respect of above Enlistment. 
This certificate is issued at the request of M/s ..................................................................................................... (Applicant) 
for the purpose of participating in the subject Enlistment(s). 
Thanking you, 
• Strike off, whichever is not applicable.
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
ANNEXURE-IV 
Undertaking regarding GeM Registration and participation in NTPC Ltd Tenders 
(To be submitted on letter head of Company/ Firm) 
Date: ---/ ... ./ .... 
Sub: Undertaking regarding GeM Registration and participation in NTPC Ltd Tenders 
1. I/We M/s .................... (Name of Vendor Applicant) ......... , Vendor (Applicant) ID: ............. , 
PAN (Vendor), hereby undertake the following (select a orb, whichever is applicable): 
a. I/We hereby confirm that we already have GeM Registration for participation against
NTPC Limited Tenders and our GeM Registrations No. is as follows:
GeM Registration No ........................... .................. ........... . 
b. Presently, I/We do not have a GeM Registration. However, I/We undertake that I/We will
promptly get GeM Registration done for participation against NTPC Ltd Tenders.
2. I/We also undertake that in the event of being an enlisted vendor, I/We will participate
in Tenders of respective Enlistment Group(s) invited by NTPC Limited. Further, in case of
non-participation, I/We shall be liable for action against our enlistment(s) as per extant
provisions of Standard Terms and Conditions of Enlistment.
(Signature of Authorised Signatory as per Power of Attorney) 
Name of Signatory: 
Designation: 
Email: 
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301