 1  Expression of Interest 
NTPC Limited 
 
 
 
 
Empanelment of Practicing Company Secretary (PCS) for various 
Secretarial Work  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
A Maharatna CPSE 
[A Government of India Enterprise] 
NTPC BHAWAN, CORE 7, SCOPE COMPLEX, 
LODHI ROAD, NEW DELHI – 110003 
Ph – 011-24360959 
Email – csntpc@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2  Expression of Interest 
NTPC Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVT. OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
 
No.01:SEC                                                                                 Date: - 29.04.2026 
 
 
 
Expression of Interest (hereinafter “EOI”) for Empanelment of Practicing 
Company Secretary (PCS) for various Secretarial Work.
Expression of Interest 3   
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
S. 
No 
Particulars Relevant 
Annexure 
Page No. 
1 Definitions & Abbreviations  4 
2 Disclaimer  4 
3 Expression of Interest – Time Schedule  5 
4 Scope of Work  5 
5 Qualifying Criteria  5 
6 Conflict of Interest  6 
7 Duration of Contract Period  6 
8 Preparation of the Proposal/Bid  6 
9 Submission & Receipt of the Proposal  6 
10 Instructions to Bidders  7 
11 Disqualification of PCS/Firm/LLP  7 
12 Bid Evaluation & Selection Procedure  8 
 13  Allocation of Work  9 
14 Confidentiality/Non-Disclosure Agreement  10 
15 Termination of Contract  10 
16 Miscellaneous Terms & Conditions  10 
17 Schedule of Payment of fee  11 
18 Jurisdiction  11 
19 Scope of Work and Fee Structure Annexure A 12 
20 Format of the Covering Letter Annexure B 13 
21 Details of PCS/Firm/LPP along with 
Supporting documents Annexure C 14-16 
22 Details in respect of experience Annexure D 
1 to D 3 17-19 
23 Details to be furnished for Partner Annexure E 20 
24 Declaration by Applicant/Bidder Annexure F 21 
25 Details of Secretarial Audit of Group 
Companies Annexure G 22 
Expression of Interest 3
NTPC Limited 
Last Date & place  for Submission of Offer (Hard  Copy) up to  13.05.2026 . 
   The Company Secretary 
NTPC LIMITED 
   NTPC Bhawan, 3rd Floor, CORE 7, 
    SCOPE Complex, Lodhi Road,  
  N ew Delhi – 110003 
   Ph – 011-24360959 
   Email – csntpc@ntpc.co.in 
Expression of Interest 4  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
1. Definitions & Abbreviations 
 
Bidder/Applicant Bidder/Applicant shall mean the entity (Proprietorship/ 
Partnership/LLP of Practicing Company Secretaries) 
who is submitting its Proposal. 
Evaluation 
Committee of the 
NTPC 
Evaluation Committee of the N TPC shall mean Tender 
Scrutiny Committee (TSC) comprising Officers of the N TPC 
for the purposes of this Expression of Interest. 
Proposal/Bid Proposal/ Bid shall mean the Technical Bid submitted in 
response to the Expression of Interest dated 29.04.2026. 
Expression of 
Interest (EOI) 
Expression of Interest shall mean this “Expression of 
Interest” issued by the NTPC including any amendments 
thereto. 
 
2. Disclaimer 
a. NTPC reserves the right of discretion to change, modify, add to or alter 
any or all of the provisions of this EOI, without assigning any reasons 
whatsoever. Such change will be intimated or made accessible to all 
Bidders or can be accessed on the website of NTPC. 
 
b. Bidder shall be responsible for completing the assignment that would be 
assigned to them as per the Scope of Work given in Annexure-A. The 
Bidder shall not transfer the assignment to any other consultants 
/advisor. 
 
c. Overwriting/correction/erase and/or use of white ink should be avoided 
in the Offer. However, if any overwriting/correction/erase is inevitable, 
the same should be authenticated with the signature & seal of 
authorized person of applicant entity. 
d. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all the bids received in response 
to this Expression of Interest at any stage without assigning any reason 
whatsoever and without being liable for any loss/injury that Bidder might 
suffer. 
e. The decision of the NTPC shall be final, conclusive and binding on all 
the Bidders directly or indirectly connected with the bidding process. 
Expression of Interest 5  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
3. Expression of Interest – Time Schedule 
 
S. 
No. 
Particulars Date & Time Day 
1. Date of issue of Expression of 
Interest / Tender Documents to the 
Bidders 
29.04.2026 Wednesday 
2. Last date & time for receiving 
written queries from Bidders 04.05.2026 Monday 
3. Date for issuing clarifications by 
the NTPC to the to the queries 
raised by the Bidders 
07.05.2026 Thursday 
4. Last date and time for submission 
of Technical Bid 
13.05.2026 
3:00 P.M. Wednesday 
5. Date & time  for opening  of the  
Technical Bid 
13.05.2026 
4:00 P.M. Wednesday 
6. Place of Submission and Opening 
the Bids 
NTPC Bhawan, Core  7, Scope 
Complex, Lodhi Road, New 
Delhi-110003 
 
*If a holiday is declared on the dates mentioned above, the Bids shall be received/ 
opened on the next working day at the same time specified above and at the 
same venue communicated otherwise. 
 
4. Scope of Work 
The detailed Scope of Work is given at Annexure-A for understanding and ready 
reference. 
 
5. Qualification Requirement (QR) 
 
1. The Practicing Company Secretary/ Firm/ LPP should have minimum experience 
of 10 years or more in full time practice or as a fulltime employment as a Company 
Secretary of any listed CPSE(s) or combination thereof. 
 
2. The PCS/Firm/LLP should have done any of the following work: - 
 
a. Secretarial Audit of at least one (1) Government Company in the last three 
preceding Financial Years i.e., 2024-25, 2023-24 and 2022-23; or 
 
b. Incorporation of at least one (1) Government Company in the last five  
preceding Financial Years i.e., 2024-25, 2023-24, 2022-23, 2021-22 and 2020-
21; or 
 
c. AOC-4 (XBRL)/ MGT-8 certification/ Certification of Annual Return MGT-7 
of at least one (1) Government Company in the last three preceding 
Financial Years i.e., 2024-25, 2023-24 and 2022-23.  
Expression of Interest 6  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
3. PCS/Firm/LLP should be peer reviewed as prescribed by the ICSI; and 
 
4. It should have Head Quarters/Branch office in New Delhi/NCR. 
 
 
6. Conflict of Interest 
NTPC requires the Bidder  to provide professional, objective, and impartial 
advice, and always hold NTPC interest paramount, strictly avoid conflicts with 
other assignment(s) or their own corporate interests, and act without any 
expectation/ consideration for award of any future assignment(s) from the 
NTPC. 
 
7. Duration of the Contract Period 
 
The validity of empanelment will initially be for a period of 5 years for 
conducting work as specified in the Scope of Work at Annexure-A. NTPC at 
its sole discretion may extend the validity of empanelment with the approval of 
Competent Authority of the Company for another 2 years. 
 
8. Preparation of the Proposal/Bid 
 
a. The name of the Proposed Assignment shall be “Empanelment of Practicing 
Company Secretary (PCS) for various Secretarial Work.” 
b. The cover letter for submission of Bids is given at Annexure-B 
c. The Technical Bid is required to be submitted in sealed cover envelope along 
with documents in support of the details mentioned in EOI. 
d. In preparing their Technical Bids, Bidders are expected to examine in 
detail the documents comprising this EOI. 
 
9. Submission & Receipt of Proposal/Bid 
 
a. The language of proposal should be in English. 
b. The Technical proposal shall be typed or written in indelible ink and shall be 
signed and sealed by the Bidder or a person duly authorized to bind the Bidder 
to the Contract. 
c. While submitting a bid, the Bidder should attach a proper index with 
clearly marked  and referenced continuation sheets. Further, an 
authorized representative of the  Bidder shall initial all pages of the 
technical bid. 
d. NTPC shall not be responsible for postal delay, misplacement, loss or 
premature opening if the outer envelope is not  sealed and/or marked as 
stipulated and this circumstance may be a cause for Proposal rejection. 
e. A master envelope duly sealed and super scribing “Empanelment of 
Expression of Interest 7  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
Practicing Company Secretary (PCS) for various Secretarial Work .” should 
be submitted at the address given below by hand delivery or post, not later 
than the last date and time of submission: 
To, 
The Company Secretary 
NTPC Limited, NTPC Bhawan, 
Core 7, Scope Complex, 
Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003 
f. Any Proposal received by the NTPC after the deadline for submission shall not 
be accepted. 
g. Bid submitted by fax, telex, telegram, or e-mail shall not be entertained. 
 
 
10. Instructions to Bidder 
 
a. Bids that are incomplete in any respect or those that are not consistent 
with the requirements as specified in this Expression of Interest (EOI) or 
those that do not contain the documents as per the specified formats 
would be considered non-responsive and may be liable for rejection. 
 
b. Bids shall be submitted on or prior to 3:00 p.m. IST on the date provided 
in the Expression of Interest - Time Schedule. 
 
11. Disqualification of PCS/Firm/LLP 
 
Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to NTPC including 
the right to  disqualify any Bidder at  the sole discretion of the NTPC with or 
without assigning any reason, NTPC reserves the right to disqualify any Bidder 
and exclude its proposal  from further consideration for any reason, including, 
but not limited to, those listed below: 
 
• Misrepresentation/ false statement is made by the Bidder at any stage 
in this process (including in supporting documentation or otherwise) and 
whether written or oral. 
• If the Bid submitted by the Bidder is, in any respect, inconsistent with, or 
demonstrates any failure to comply with, the provisions of the 
Expression of Interest. 
• Failure by the Bidder to provide necessary and sufficient information or 
any document required to be provided in the Bid in accordance with the 
Expression of Interest. 
• Failure by the Bidder to provide, within the time specified by the NTPC, 
supplemental information/documents for evaluation of the Bid (even if 
such information/documents are sought after the deadline). 
Expression of Interest 8  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
• Submission of more than one Bid by the Bidder whether directly or 
indirectly. In that case, all such Bids shall be rejected. 
• Initiation or existence of any legal proceedings, by or against the Bidder 
which may be prejudiced by the participation of the Bidder. 
• NTPC reserves the right to verify the validity of information and to reject 
any bid where the contents apparently are incorrect, inaccurate or 
inappropriate at any time during the process of Evaluation. 
• Any information regarding or in connection with the Bidder which 
becomes known and is detrimental to Proposed Assignment and/or 
interest of NTPC. 
 
12. Bid Evaluation & Selection Procedure  
a. Evaluation of the Bids submitted by the Bidder and the selection procedure 
under this Expression of Interest will  be carried out by the Tender Scrutiny 
Committee (TSC) of the NTPC. 
 
b. The PCS/ Firm/LLP meeting the Qualifying criteria as per para 5 will be further 
evaluated as per the selection criteria mentioned below based on documents 
submitted as per Annexure C.  
 
S. 
NO Selection criteria Basis for awarding of 
points 
Maximum 
Points 
1. Experience in fulltime practice 
or employment as a Company 
Secretary of any listed 
CPSE(s) or both (No. of 
years) * 
1 Point for every year 
experience of PCS/ Firm/ 
LPP over and above 
minimum qualifying 
requirement 
15 
2. Experience of conducting 
Secretarial Audit of 
Government Company in last 
three preceding F.Y.  
2 points for each secretarial 
Audit of Government 
Company. 
(Note: If secretarial audit of 
one Govt. Co. is done for 
three years, then six marks 
will be allotted) 
10 
3. Experience of incorporating a 
Government Company in last 
five preceding F.Y.  
2 points for each work.  
 
10 
4. Experience of AOC-4 (XBRL)/ 
MGT-8 certification / 
certification of Annual Return 
MGT-7 of Government Co. in 
last three preceding F.Y. 
2 points for each work 10 
Expression of Interest 9  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
5. No. of active partners  
and/or full time qualified full 
time CS employees. 
1 point for each Partner / 
Full time qualified CS 
employee.  
5 
 Total Maximum Marks  50 
 
* In case of conversion of proprietorship firm into partnership firm, experience shall 
be counted from the date of obtaining Certificate of Practice (CoP) by the 
proprietor who shall also be the Sr. member of partnership firm. 
 
c. PCS/firms/LPP shall be empaneled based on their ranking. Based on marks 
obtained out of total 50 marks, top Ten (10) PCS/firms/LPP shall be empaneled 
for various secretarial work to be assigned on rotational basis. NTPC reserves 
the right to empanel up to 15 PCS/firms/LPP depending upon the operational 
requirement. In case of tie of marks, both the bidder/applicant would be 
empaneled. However, for counting of top 10, they will be counted separately.  
 
For example, if four (4) bidders secure same  marks for the 6 th position, then all 
four shall be empaneled and shall be assigned positions sequentially as 6 th, 7th, 
8th and 9th for counting purposes.  
 
In case a tie occurs at the 10 th rank, all bidders securing identical marks shall be 
empaneled, notwithstanding that the total number of empaneled agencies may 
exceed ten (10). 
 
 
d. During evaluation of Bids, NTPC may, at their discretion, ask a Bidder for 
clarification of its proposal. The request for clarification and the response shall 
be in writing/email. If the response to the clarification is not received within the 
prescribed period as may be prescribed by the NTPC in this regard, evaluation 
shall be done based on submitted documents. 
 
13. Allocation of Work 
 
a. Allocation of assignments among the empaneled PCS/Firms/LLPs shall be at 
the sole discretion of NTPC and its respective Joint Ventures 
(JVs)/Subsidiaries. The company concerned may rotate such assignments 
among empaneled agencies in such manner as may be decided by it from time 
to time. 
 
b. Allocation of Secretarial Audit assignments pertaining to Subsidiaries/JVs of 
NTPC Limited shall be made at the sole discretion of NTPC Limited and its 
Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures. The fee for secretarial audit under Annexure-A is 
tentative. The fee as well as appointment as Secretarial Auditor  shall be 
Expression of Interest 10  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
subject to approval of the competent authority of the respective Subsidiary  or 
Joint Venture company of NTPC Limited. 
 
c. Not more than three (3) Secretarial Audit assignments shall be allotted to any 
single PCS/Firm/LLP at a time.  In case at the time of submission of bid any 
bidder/applicant already having secretarial audit of three or more Subsidiary/ 
Joint Venture companies of NTPC (Incl. NTPC Limited) , then the 
bidder/applicant is eligible for empanelment . However, no further secretarial 
audit would be allocated to them to maintain the maximum number. For list of 
Subsidiaries/JV’s please refer following link -  
https://www.ntpc.co.in/index.php/business-development/joint-ventures-and-
subsidiaries-various-sectors. Bidder shall provide details with respect to  
secretarial audit of Subsidiary/ Joint Venture companies as per Annexure – F.  
 
 
14. Confidentiality/Non-Disclosure Agreement 
 
The appointed Practicing Company Secretary/ Firm / LLP as Secretarial 
Auditor of NTPC Limited will have access to the data of the NTPC. The PCS/ 
Firm / LLP should treat as confidential all data and information about the NTPC 
obtained in the execution of the proposed assignment, hold it in strict 
confidence and should not reveal such data/ information to any other party.   
 
15. TERMINATION OF CONTRACT 
 
i. If at any time the PCS/Firm makes any default in proceeding with the work 
with due diligence and continues to do so even after the notice in writing is 
served on him or commits any default in complying with any of the terms 
and conditions even after the notice in writing is given on that behalf by the 
Company Secretary , NTPC may, without prejudice to any other right or 
remedy which shall have accrued or shall accrue thereafter to NTPC, by a 
notice in writing, terminate the contract as a whole or a part of the Contract, 
subject to statutory compliance, if any. 
ii. Further, the PCS/Firm will be debarred from getting any future assignments 
in NTPC in the following cases: 
a. If the PCS/Firm obtains the empanelment  on the basis of  false 
information/false statement at the time of submission of 
application/documents. 
b. If the PCS/Firm is found to have sub-contracted the work. 
c. If the PCS/Firm does not take up the assignment in terms of the 
appointment letter. 
d. If the PCS/Firm fails to satisfactorily discharge the duties. 
 
Expression of Interest 11  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
16. Miscellaneous Terms & Conditions 
 
a. NTPC reserves the right, at any time, to waive any of the requirements of the 
Expression of Interest, if in the sole discretion of NTPC; the best interests of 
NTPC would be served by such waiver. 
 
b. Subject to statutory compliance, NTPC  have the right to cancel the 
empanelment at any time, without thereby incurring any liabilities to the 
affected PCS/ Firm / LLP. Reasons for cancellation, as determined by NTPC, 
may include but are not limited to, the following: 
a) The work is done in unsatisfactorily manner 
b) Breach of Confidentiality obligation by the PCS/ Firm / LLP. 
c) Information/documents submitted at the time of Bid turnout to be not true 
and correct subsequently. 
 
c. NTPC shall not be liable for any omission, mistake or error in respect of any of 
the above or on account of any matter or thing arising out of or concerning or 
relating to the EOI or the bidding process, including any error or mistake 
therein or in any information or data given by NTPC. 
 
17. Schedule of Payment of fee 
 
Payment of fee shall be in Indian Rupees only. The fee shall be payable on 
providing satisfactory periodic services as per agreement.  The fee would be 
exclusive of taxes (GST) as applicable. 
 
NTPC reserves the right to deduct any proportionate amount from the 
successful bidder on account of insufficient/unsatisfactory work or careless 
execution of the job. 
 
All payments against the services rendered under the assignment shall be 
released on successful completion of the work and receiving of original invoice. 
 
18. Jurisdiction 
 
All and any disputes or differences arising out of or related to this Expression 
of Interest shall be decided only by the courts or tribunals situated in New Delhi, 
India. No suit or other legal proceedings shall be instituted elsewhere. 
 
 
Expression of Interest 12  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
Annexure A  
 
Scope of Work and Fee Structure 
 
 
S.no. Particulars Fee (in Rs.) 
1. Incorporation of a Company including MOA & 
AOA preparation. 40,000/- 
2. Scrutinizer Services for AGM/EGM/Postal Ballot. 35,000/- 
3. 
XBRL Preparation (AOC-4) 
• Listed Company 
 
• Unlisted Subsidiary/JV 
 
25,000/- each for Standalone & 
Consolidated 
 
15,000/- each for Standalone & 
Consolidated 
4. 
CSR-2 
• NTPC Limited 
• Other than NTPC Ltd.  
 
8,000/- 
3,000/- 
5. 
MGT-8 Certification 
 
• Listed Company 
• Unlisted Subsidiary/JV 
 
 
10,000/- 
5,000/- 
6. 
Preparation of Annual Return MGT-7 
 
• Listed Company 
• Unlisted Subsidiary/JV  
 
 
5,000/- 
3,000/- 
7. 
Secretarial Audit fee for Subsidiaries & JV of 
NTPC Limited. 
 
• Public Limited Companies 
• Private Limited Companies 
 
 
(Tentative) – Refer para 13(b) 
25,000/- 
20,000/- 
8. Certificates under SEBI LODR Regulations (per 
certificate) 5,000/- 
9. Miscellaneous Certificates (per certificate) 5,000/- 
10. Issue of Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) 
[Class 3] 2,000/- 
11. Certification of other Routine Forms e.g. MGT-14, 
DIR-12, PAS-3, CHG etc.  
2,000/- (Rs. 1000 extra if form 
is also prepared by the firm) 
 
The above fee will be increased by 10% after 2 years.
Expression of Interest 13  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
Annexure B 
 
Format of the Covering Letter 
 
(On Bidder’s Letterhead) 
 
To, 
Company Secretary 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, Core 7, Scope Complex, 
Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003 
 
SUB: Expression of Interest dated ______ 
Dear Sir, 
 
Please find enclosed our Proposal in response to the Expression of Interest 
dated ……. issued by NTPC limited. We hereby confirm the following: 
 
1. The Bid is being submitted by (name of the Bidder) in 
accordance with the conditions stipulated in the Expression of Interest  
Document. 
2. We have examined in detail and have understood the terms and conditions 
stipulated in the Expression of Interest issued by the NTPC and in any 
subsequent communication sent by NTPC. We agree and undertake to abide 
by all these terms and conditions. Our Proposal is consistent  with all the 
requirements of submission as stated in the Expression of Interest or in any of 
the subsequent communications from NTPC. 
 
For and on behalf of: (name of the 
Bidder) 
 
Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
  Stamp of the PCS/Firm  
Date __________ 
Place _________ 
Expression of Interest 14  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
Annexure - C 
On letter head of Practicing Company Secretary/Firm of Company Secretaries 
(For Empanelment of Practicing Company Secretary for various Secretarial Work) 
 
To 
Company Secretary  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, Core 7 
Scope Complex, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi-110003 
 
Sl. No. Particulars Details 
1. Name of the Practicing Company Secretary 
(PCS)/Firm of Company Secretaries (Firm): 
• Whether Partnership/Proprietorship/ 
Individual 
• Name of the Sr. Partner/Proprietor/ 
Individual 
• Name(s) of the Contact person(s) and the 
Contact details 
 
2. I. Date of Commencement of Practice as 
PCS 
II. Date of approval of name of the Firm 
from ICSI 
iii. Certificate of Practice (COP) 
Number/Registration Number 
 
Please Attach Documentary evidence: 
• Copy of Certificate of Practice or 
certificate from ICSI regarding date of 
commencement of practice as PCS; 
and/or 
• Copy of approval letter from ICSI in 
respect of Firm’s Name. 
 
3. Details of Delhi/NCR Office(s) 
Address: Telephone 
Nos. Fax No. 
E-mail 
Website 
(Letter from ICSI having office details shall be 
attached as proof of address) 
 
Expression of Interest 15  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
4. Post Qualification Experience in full time practice 
or fulltime employment as a Company Secretary 
of any listed CPSE of  Sr. 
Partner/Proprietor/Individual 
 
(Please Attach Documentary evidence) 
  
………. Years……… months  
5. PAN No. 
GST Regn.No. 
(Please Attach Documentary evidence) 
 
6. Number of Secretarial Audits conducted in Govt. 
Company in the last three preceding F.Y. i.e., 
2024-25, 2023-24 and 2022-23 
 
 
 S. No. Name of the 
Company 
Financial 
Year for 
which 
Secretarial 
Audit 
conducted 
 
  
 
(Attach copy of Secretarial Audit Report in Form – 
MR-3) 
    
7. Number of Government Companies Incorporated 
in last five preceding F.Y. i.e., 2024-25, 2023-24, 
2022-23, 2021-22 and 2020-21 
 
 
 
(Attach Incorporation Form and other supporting 
documents as proof of execution) 
S. No. Name of 
the 
Company 
Date of 
Incorporation 
   
 
8. Number of AOC -4 (XBRL), MGT-8 certification, 
preparation & filing of Annual Return MGT -7 of 
Government Co. in last three preceding F.Y. i.e., 
2024-25, 2023-24 and 2022-23 
 
 
 
(Attach relevant extracts of the form and other 
supporting documents as proof of execution) 
S. No. Name of 
the 
Company 
Form 
   
 
9. Number of active Partners / full time employees 
with PCS/Firm, who are qualified Company 
Secretaries and members of ICSI: 
 
(Please attach details including name, 
membership no., experience etc. of active partner 
/employee) 
 
Partners: …………Nos.  
 
Employees: …………Nos.  
10. Confirmation that the PCS/Firm is not disqualified 
to act as the Secretarial Auditor as per provisions 
of the SEBI LODR Regulations and shall not 
render services to the Company prohibited by 
SEBI under the said regulations. 
 
11. Any other relevant information (Please 
Attach separate sheet, if required). 
 
 
Expression of Interest 16  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
Note: - Kindly attach Peer Review certificate.  
 
 
Declaration: 
1. All the information provided by me/us herein above is correct. 
2. I/We have no objection if enquiries are made about the work listed by me/us in the 
accompanying sheets/annexure. 
3. I/We have read all the terms & conditions of bid and the instructions, and these are 
acceptable to me/us. 
 
 
 
                                                   Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
Stamp of the PCS/Firm 
Date __________ 
Place _________ 
  
 
  
 
Expression of Interest 17  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
Annexure D 1  
 
Details in respect of experience in Secretarial Audit of Government 
Company 
(On Bidder’s Letterhead) 
 
Company Name and CIN Financial Year Name of Person signing the 
Report and COP No. 
   
   
   
Notes: 
1. In case the information required by NTPC is not provided by the Bidder, NTPC shall 
proceed with evaluation based on information provided and may not request the 
Bidder for further information. 
2. The responsibility for providing information as required in this form lies solely with 
the Bidder. 
 
 
 
Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
Stamp of the PCS/Firm 
 
Place:  
Date: 
Expression of Interest 18  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
Annexure D 2 
 
Details in respect of experience Number of Government Companies 
Incorporated 
(On Bidder’s Letterhead) 
 
Company Name and CIN Date of 
Incorporation 
Name of Person certifying the 
form and COP No. 
   
   
   
Notes: 
1. In case the information required by NTPC is not provided by the Bidder, NTPC shall 
proceed with evaluation based on information provided and may not request the 
Bidder for further information. 
2. The responsibility for providing information as required in this form lies solely with 
the Bidder. 
 
 
 
Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
Stamp of the PCS/Firm 
 
Place:  
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expression of Interest 19  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
Annexure D 3 
 
Details in respect of experience of AOC-4 (XBRL preparation), MGT -8 
certification, preparation & filing of Annual Return MGT-7 of Government 
Co. 
 
(On Bidder’s Letterhead) 
 
Company Name 
and CIN 
Details of Form Financial 
Year 
Name of Person 
certifying the form 
and COP No. 
    
    
    
Notes: 
3. In case the information required by NTPC is not provided by the Bidder, NTPC shall 
proceed with evaluation based on information provided and may not request the 
Bidder for further information. 
4. The responsibility for providing information as required in this form lies solely with 
the Bidder. 
 
 
 
Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
Stamp of the PCS/Firm 
 
Place:  
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expression of Interest 20  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
Annexure E 
 
 
Particulars to be furnished for Partner/Full time qualified CS Employee 
(On Bidder’s Letterhead) 
 
(On letter head of Practicing Company Secretary Firm in original) 
 
To, 
Company Secretary, 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, Core 7, 
Scope Complex, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi – 110003. 
 
Declaration by PCS/Firm regarding active partners/full time qualified CS 
employee: 
I/We, .................................................., having office .......... , do hereby confirm that 
following persons are working in our/my firm as active partners/ full-time employees: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name 
of 
person 
Designation Date 
of 
joinin
g 
ICSI 
Membership 
No. 
Annexure 
(Copy of 
ICSI 
Membership 
Certificate) 
Signature 
       
       
       
       
       
 
 
 
 
Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
Stamp of the PCS/Firm 
 
 
Place:  
Date: 
Expression of Interest 21  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure F 
 
Declaration by the Applicant/Bidder 
 
(On Bidder’s Letterhead) 
I/ We, 
M/s………………………………………………………………………………………., 
do hereby affirm that, I/we have not been banned/declared ineligible due to 
professional misconduct, corrupt and fraudulent practices by the Government of 
India/ State Governments/Regulatory Authorities or have not been debarred from 
entering into Contract by any  Government/Body/Authority in five immediate 
previous years. 
 
Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
Stamp of the PCS Firm 
 
 
 
Place: Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expression of Interest 22  
NTPC Limited  
 
 
 
 
Annexure G 
 
 
Declaration by the Applicant/Bidder regarding Secretarial Audit of 
Subsidiaries/JV’s Companies of NTPC Limited 
 
(On Bidder’s Letterhead) 
I/We, M/s…………………………………………………………………………………., 
do hereby declare that I/we currently held the Secretarial Audit assignments of 
following group companies (Subsidiaries/JV’s) of NTPC Limited. 
 
Company Name and CIN Financial Year Name of Person signing the 
Report and COP No. 
   
   
   
 
 
 
Signature 
Name & Designation of the Authorized Signatory 
Membership Number 
Stamp of the PCS Firm 
 
 
 
Place: 
Date: 
 