Page 1 of 10 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Govt. of India enterprise) 
 
 
NTPC RAMAGUNDAM & TELANGANA 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
For allocation of Fly Ash from NTPC, Ramagundam & Telangana 
 
Ref. No.:NTPC/R&T/Fly Ash/EoI/ 2026-27                  Date: 01.05.2026 
Name of Work:  
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana TPS located at Peddapalli district, Telangana -505215 invites 
Expression of Interest (EoI) from MSEs (Micro and Small Enterprises)  , Local MSEs/Local Users 
(located within a radius of 100 KMs from NTPC Ramagundam) engaged in ash -based product 
manufacturing, for allocation of Fly Ash on Pro-rata basis at concessional rates with transportation 
cost to be borne by User agencies. 
How to Apply 
 
Interested agencies engaged in ash-based product manufacturing are requested to submit their 
'EOI' as per standard Format along with other required details uploaded in NTPC tender website 
at https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in 
The EOI along with required documents complete in all respects may be submitted through email to 
audrnt@ntpc.co.in  
Last date of submission of EOI: 15/05/2026, 18.00 hrs 
For details, kindly visit   https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ 
 
Office Address: NTPC Ramagundam, District- Peddapalli, Telanagana-505215 
Head Office: NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi 
Leading the Power Sector 

Page 2 of 10 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
Issue of Fly Ash from NTPC, Ramagundam & Telangana to MSEs (Micro and 
Small Enterprises) and local MSEs/local Users on pro-rata basis through EoI 
with Transportation cost to be borne by User Agencies 
Ref. No.: NTPC/R&T/Fly Ash/EoI/ 2026-27 Date: 01.05.2026 
 
 
This Expression of Interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information. 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI. 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency. 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 10 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana: 
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana, located at Peddapalli district, Telangana -505215 having a total installed 
capacity of 2600 MW at NTPC Ramagundam and 1600 MW at NTPC Telangana, is engaged in the business 
of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF&CC Gazette 
Notification, revised guidelines of MoP dt:30.01.2026 and to promote utilization of fly ash among MSEs 
(Micro and Small Enterprises) and lo cal users (located with in 100 Km radius of NTPC Ramagundam) 
engaged in ash based product manufacturing, NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana intends to issue Fly Ash 
on prorate basis, with transportation cost being borne by the user Agencies. 
To facilitate this, NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period 
of 01 (One) year, from its 2600 MW plant at NTPC Ramagundam and 1600 MW plant at NTPC Telangana. 
Further details regarding this Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follows: 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Agencies, 
for utilization of  Fly ash in ash-based product manufacturing as per extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the 
prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3). 
Total quantity of Fly Ash in MT from the Station, available for issue is as per details given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location Total Fly Ash 
Quantity offered 
for EoI (IN LMT) 
Period of Supply 
(in Months) 
Price of fly ash in 
INR/MT 
NTPC Ramagundam Thermal Power 
Station, 
Address- Peddapalli district, Telangana -
505215. 
 
3.0 
 
12 
 
 
 
 
10.0 
NTPC Telangana Thermal Power 
Project, 
Address- Peddapalli district, Telangana -
505215. 
 
4.0 
 
12 
 
How to apply: 
Interested MSEs, Local MSEs/Local Users desirous of receiving fly ash from NTPC Ramagundam and 
Telangana as per the terms and conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with 
specified documents and duly filled-in enclosed “Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and 
“Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency” to the E – Mail address audrnt@ntpc.co.in on or before 
18:00 hrs. of 7th May 2026. 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and 
“Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency”: 
 
 PAN, GST 
Page 4 of 10 
 
 
 Valid MSE certificate /Udyam Aadhar Certificate 
 ‘Consent to Operate’ Certificate from CPCB/SPCB as applicable 
 Registration certificate of Industry issued by District Industry Centre or Certificate issued by Gram 
Panchayat Secretary of concerned Govt. as applicable 
 Industrial Electricity connection bill  
 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and authentic. 
Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
 
Allocation of Fly Ash Quantity: 
Based on the evaluation of responses to EoI received with in the stipulated date and time, Fly Ash  shall be 
allocated to eligible agencies on pro-rata basis with transportation cost to be borne by the User agencies.  
However, collecting from NTPC`s issue location and transportation, thereafter, will be in the scope of the 
Agency only. ` 
In case the same Agency gets some allocation against both the Auction Process and this EoI, then the Ash 
quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that Agency, only after the Agency completes the 
lifting of the allocation against the Auction on monthly prorate basis.  
 
 
Daily allocation of Fly Ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful Agencies shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day-wise 
requested quantities for each month. 
2. Lifting Sequence & allocation shall be finalized by NTPC depending upon site specific conditions. 
3. All allocated Agencies shall be expected to follow the above schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate such 
quantity to alternate Agency(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC) - NTPC shall be 
final and binding in this regard. 
 
 
Fly Ash  shall be issued from the discharge chute of designated ash Silo, Other Suitable Locations  as 
decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Agency shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with submission 
of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation Process, at the rate of 
Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum  of Rs. 10,000. This  SD will be kept for ensuring commitment of the 
Successful Agency(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An  amount at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un -lifted 
quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This adjusted 
SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or lifting of entire allocated 
quantity, whichever is earlier. 
Page 5 of 10 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Agency) 
(To be submitted by the Agency along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue of Fly Ash from (Name of Thermal Power Station (TPP) from where Fly Ash is to 
issued) 
 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Agency  
 
          2. 
 Status (MSE (Micro and Small Enterprises), 
Local MSE/Local User) 
 
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Nature of Organisation:  
Avenue where will be used  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year 
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling Fly Ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
2.4 Distance of manufacturing facility from NTPC 
Ramagundam 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Page 6 of 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
Fly Ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
 
Figures: 
 
 
Words: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Fly Ash Auction 
Process from same station (NTPC Ramagundam 
and Telangana) (Yes/No). 
 
If yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Address of the location where Agency proposes 
to transport Fly Ash if issued. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the Agency 
proposes to utilize the Fly Ash, if issued. 
SN Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
Page 7 of 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
11 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of   
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
Signature: 
(Authorized Representative) 
Name: 
Designation: 
Page 8 of 10 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Agency. 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) (To 
be notarized before a notary public) 
UNDERTAKING 
I / We   (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained in all 
corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the terms and 
conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of allocation 
of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered as  part and parcel of the 
LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and 
required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / Semi 
– Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have been 
convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of fly ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I /  We agree to abide by the  directions of the EIC (Engineer  in Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, Sequence of 
Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization of adequate number 
of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement conducive to environment 
friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out the above as per instructions of, 
and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding  
safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable 
statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area as 
directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting and 
utilization of Fly Ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries from 
any liability, whatsoever, w hich may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any 
applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and  
for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us or my / our 
representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization Avenues as 
identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly basis, 
an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for t he purposes/ Avenues as identified 
in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / we fail  
to execute the contract faithfully and the contract  is terminated as  per contract conditions 
mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true and  
Page 9 of 10 
 
 
authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any 
stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for 
disqualification from this EoI and also liable for any other penal action that may arise due to 
the above. 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for Fly Ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the EoI. 
NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct or 
outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Not Applicable. 
4. Allocation will be done  pro rata basis , to the parties who have submitted all requisite 
documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of submission of interest. 
Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of all specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit 
amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along with submission 
of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as per the conditions of LOA 
/ LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along with requisite security deposit and 
other specified documents required by the respective station within stipulated time, TPP 
reserves the right to cancel the Fly Ash allocation to me / us. 
 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Name ……………………………… 
Place: …………………….       
Designation: ………………………. 
           Name of the Company: …….……. 
…………………………………....…. 
  Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
                                                                                                                    Company Seal:  
Page 10 of 10 
 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
ALLOCATION OF FLY ASH AGAINST EXPRESSION OF INTERST (EOI) to MSEs, LOCAL MSEs / 
LOCAL Users 
  
NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana STPP intend to sell 7.0 LMT (3.0 LMT from NTPC 
Ramagundam and 4.0 LMT from NTPC Telangana)  at INR10/- per MT  of fly ash through 
Expression of interest (EOI) to MSEs , Local MSEs/Users and would make available allocated 
quantity of Fly Ash from designated Storage Area at NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana as 
decided by Engineer-In-Charge subject to Force Majeure conditions and unplanned outage of 
Plant etc., on “As on Availability” basis. NTPC reserves the right to supply the quantity not 
lifted by the qualified agencies to any other party at the sole discretion of NTPC. 
  
  
Basis of evaluation of responses received against EOI. 
Responses received against the EOI will be evaluated by a committee based on 
predefined criteria including submission of following valid applicable documents:  
1.1. PAN, GST 
1.2. Valid MSE (Micro and Small Enterprises) certificate /Udyam Aadhar Certificate 
1.3. ‘Consent to Operate’ Certificate from CPCB/SPCB as applicable 
1.4. Registration certificate of Industry issued by District Industry Centre or concerned 
State Govt. Authority as applicable 
1.5. Industrial Electricity connection bill of the manufacturing facility  
 
 
Terms and Conditions of Fly Ash Supply: 
The order of allotment issued to qualified agencies shall be performed strictly in 
accordance with the terms and conditions as follows. 
  
1.  Allocation Period: 
The allocation period shall be effective from the date of issue of allotment order or as 
per the instructions of NTPC’s Engineer -In-Charge. The completion date of allocation 
period is Twelve (12) months from the date of start , or till the completion of sup ply 
of allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
  
2. Price:   
Fly ash will be issued at INR 10/ - per MT provided the qualified agency is willing to 
bear the transportation cost. 
  
   3. Security Deposit (SD): 
Security deposit @ INR 1/ - per MT  of allocated fly ash subject to a minimum of                 
INR 10,000/- will be deposited online by the qualified agency before start of lifting  
ash. The SD will be returned after successful completion of the lifting of allocated 
Page 11 of 10 
 
 
quantity. In case of non-lifting/ partial lifting, an amount@Rs.1/- per MT of Non- Lifted 
quantity will be forfeited. 
 
4.   Working Hours: 
Fly Ash is intended to be issued on all days (on 24 x 7 basis), including national holidays 
or as per Engineer-in-Charge. 
  
5.  Quality of Fly Ash: 
Fly Ash shall be issued from designated delivery point in NTPC Ramagundam and 
Telangana STPP, on “As Available Basis”. 
  
6.  Delivery point: 
NTPC Ramagundam  and Telangana would issue Fly Ash from designated Fly Ash 
storage area at NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana or as decided by Engineer -In-
Charge. Fly Ash shall be considered to have been issued and collected as it passes into 
the qualified agency’s vehicle at the loading point. 
  
7.  Commencement of first off take: 
Commencement of first off take of Fly Ash by the agency should not exceed beyond 
ten (10) days from the date of issue of this allotment letter after deposit of Security 
deposit for the total allocate d quantity unless specifically agreed by NTPC. The 
allotment order may be cancelled in case of delay in offtake for more than ten (10) 
days as per the discretion of NTPC without giving any notice to the qualified agency.  
  
      8.   Weighment: 
a. Fly Ash shall be issued based on actual weighment/ carrying capacity of the     
Trucks/Bulkers as decided by Engineer-In-Charge (EIC) subject to availability of weigh 
bridge. 
b. Unit: The lifted Fly Ash shall be weighed in the terms of MT (Metric Ton). 
c. Weighment: Weighment of lifted Fly Ash shall be done at the authorized weighment 
facility of NTPC / calibrated weighbridge facility of the Agency. Weights recorded shall 
be considered final. (in case NTPC weighbridge is not available due to 
maintenance/breakdown carrying capacity of the Trucks/Bulkers will be considered 
for the fly ash delivered). 
  
      9.   Delivery: 
a. The qualified agency should depute his authorized representative to the power station 
for co-ordination and taking delivery of Fly Ash. 
b. The owner has the right to suspend the delivery of Fly Ash if proper instruction of EIC 
as per the site requirement is not followed from time to time and such suspension of 
delivery shall be to the account of qualified agency. 
    10. Accounting of Fly Ash quantity: 
a. Challan in duplicate copy with predefined serial number will be jointly signed & issued 
to each vehicle at the exit of the plant. The challan book as per the required format of 
NTPC has to be arranged by the lifting agency. 
b. All the challan copy will be duly signed & stamped by the Agency/NTPC representative 
at loading point. The original copy of challan will be kept with NTPC & the duplicate 
Page 12 of 10 
 
 
copy will be handed over to the agency representative. 
c. The quantity lifted from Ash Plant will be counted as the issued quantity. 
  
11. Lifting Sequence and Allocation: 
a. To be finalized by Engineer-In-Charge depending upon site specific conditions. 
b. In case of non -mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may at its discretion, 
allocate such quantity to alternate users(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer -In-
Charge, NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
c. In case the same Agency gets some a llocation against both the Auction Process 
and this EoI, then the Ash quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to 
that Agency, only after the Agency completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation 
against the Auction Process on monthly prorate basis.  
  
    12. Upward Quantity Flexibility: 
No upward variation in quantity would be allowed.  
  
13. Cancellation of Allocation Order: 
a. After commencement of first off take, qualified agency will be required to lift Fly Ash 
on regular basis. The qualified agency shall have to lift 90% of the monthly prorate 
quantity. The monthly quantity shall be considered from the scheduled date of start 
till completion of month and subsequently so on till expiry of total allocation. 
b. In case, Fly Ash offtake falls below 90% of (the contracted or adjusted quantity, 
whichever is lower), during any month, NTPC reserves the right to cancel the 
allocation order without giving any notice  in writing of their intentions to do so and 
in such an event the qualified agency shall not  be entitled to any compensation from 
the owner.  
c. In the event of cancellation of allocation order, the SD amount @Rs.1/ - per MT for 
the non- lifted quantity of the agency will be forfeited  without giving any notice to 
the qualified agency, provided shortfall is because of the reasons attributable to 
Qualified agency. 
d. NTPC also reserves the right to terminate the order at any time in the event of breach 
of allotment order by the agency without any notice in writing of their intentions to do 
so and in such an event the qualified agency shall not be entitled to any compensation 
from the owner.  
e. Following will constitute breach of allotment order:  
v) Delay in first offtake by qualified agency from a committed date of more than ten 
days.  
v) The qualified agency is not complying with operational and safety requirements 
and neglecting the instructions of Engineer-In-Charge.  
v) The qualified agency has failed to discharge its obligations according to the t erms 
and conditions of the order. 
v) The order for issue of Fly Ash may be terminated at any time depending on the 
policy of the Government and / or other concerned authorities.  
v) NTPC reserves the right to withdraw the allocation in the interest and safety of the 
power station at any time without any notice in writing to the qualified agency. 
  
Page 13 of 10 
 
 
14. Shortfall in supply by Owner: 
a. Fly Ash is a product of coal combustion, which again is subject to the demand of 
electricity in the areas allocated by the regulatory authorities. Scheduled and 
unscheduled shutdowns also affect generation of electricity and thus generation of 
Fly Ash. Though all efforts will be made to maintain contracted quantity of Fly Ash 
available, NTPC does not guarantee availability of Fly Ash as per allocated quantity 
regularly and will not be liable for any compensation or damages for non -issue of 
required quantity of the Fly Ash.  
b. In case the owner is unable to provide the average monthly prorate quantity of Fly 
Ash due to any reasons including forced outages of the plant, congestions etc. NTPC, 
in respect of agency shall accordingly adjust the average monthly prorate quantity 
downward.  
c. Determination of monthly prorate quantity for cancellation of allocation in case of 
short supply by NTPC shall also be computed w.r.t quantity made available to the 
qualified agency on monthly basis.  
15. NA 
  
16.  Affidavit for Utilization of Ash: 
Qualified agency shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite   
value before commencement of first offtake, certifying the complete use of issued 
NTPC Fly Ash certifying the adherence to provisions identified vide extant MoEF&CC 
Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. 
  
17.    Authorized Person: 
A proper authorization in the format prescribed by Engineer -In-Charge must be 
presented to Engineer -in-Charge if the qualified agency wants to depute an 
agent/transporter on its behalf. 
  
18.   Safety: 
 The qualified agency would be responsible for the safety of its people for which the 
qualified agency should provide necessary safety gear to  its workers. All ash 
transporting vehicles should be in good condition having all valid documents and each 
vehicle shall be equipped with horn, reverse horn, lights, revers lights, side indicators 
etc. Safety guidelines would be followed by the Qualified agency as per instruction of 
Engineer-In-Charge. 
The qualified agency shall be fully responsible for maintaining all the insurance covers 
as per the law of land at its own cost. 
19.    Pollution Control and Transportation of Fly Ash: 
All possible measures would be taken by the qualified agency to avoid pollution to the 
satisfaction of the plant officials. Similarly, while transporting, no spillage of Fly Ash 
would be permitted to avoid air pollution. If the process adopted by the qualified agency 
is found to be deficient, NTPC retains the right to stop the Fly Ash supply forthwith. 
  
20.  Transportation including Bagging / Packing of Fly Ash and any other related activity is 
in the scope of the agency. No claim whatsoever, by the agency for transportation of  
Fly Ash will be payable. 
 
Page 14 of 10 
 
 
  
21. The qualified agency and its transporter would be entirely responsible towards 
MVI/RTO for overloading Fly Ash. NTPC in any case will not be held responsible for the 
same. 
  
22.   Indemnities for Environmental Conditions: All Regulatory and Statutory compliances to 
been sued by the agency while lifting/transportation/Disposal/Usage/Sale etc. 
  
23.  The qualified agency will submit an Indemnity bond  as per the prescribed format 
(Annexure –03) to keep NTPC indemnified against legal proceedings / paying damages 
arising out of non-compliances by the agency, if any. 
24.  Compliance by Agency: 
Agencies to comply with all reasonable controls imposed by NTP C and to cooperate  
with the station and other operating agencies / contractors and to abide by the decision 
of Engineer-In-Charge 
  
25.  Dispute Resolution:  
Disputes, if any, shall be resolved through mutual consultation. The decision of 
Engineer-In-Charge, NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. However, in case of 
escalation of dispute, the extant procedures in NTPC, i.e., Conciliation, Expert 
Settlement Council, Arbitration, etc. will be available.  Only Telangana High Court shall 
have exclusive jurisdiction in all matters of disputes pertaining to the EOI for supply of 
Fly Ash. 
  
26.  All payments to NTPC shall be made through customer receipt portal 
https://pgw.ntpclakshya.co.in 
  
27. Engineer-In-Charge: 
Shri Ajit Kr Bose, AGM(ADM/AUD), ajitbose@ntpc.co.in or his representative will be    
the Engineer-In-Charge for the subject allocation order. 
 
  
  
  
  
 