EMPANELMENT OF CONSULTANT FOR GENERAL POWER SYSTEM STUDIES
Dates for Online application submission shall be as per the following schedule 
Enlistment group No. CCG-13
Enlistment Docs link 
Issue of NIA 30.04.2026
Start of Documents download Date 30.04.2026
Last date for receipt of queries from 
applicants (if any) 
07.05.2026
Last Date and Time for Complete 
Application submission 
21.05.2026
Cost of Enlistment Document/ 
Application Fees 
NIL 
Note: Applicants are advised to visit the Vendor Enlistment portal of NTPC 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in for updated schedule and submission of  online 
application for  the said Enlistment . 
The date mentioned above is original date,for extended date (if any) may 
please refer date mentioned on www.vdc.ntpc.co.in
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
Notice Inviting Applications 
(NIA)
for 
EMPANELMENT OF CONSULTANT FOR 
GENERAL POWER SYSTEM STUDIES 
             Application Period (Online only) 
30.04.2026 - 21.05.2026
through NTPC Vendor Enlistment Portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in
Annexure-I 
Brief Scope of Work 
Scope of works for each assignment shall vary depending on the requirement of client and 
the detailed scope shall be provided to the empanelled agency depending on the nature of the 
assignment. However, the broad scope of work is presented below to provide the nature of 
the work that is to be performed by the selected empanelled agency. The agency needs to 
perform the following studies as per the requirement (all the studies or any single study or 
number of studies based on the requirement of client) of assignment which will be intimated 
through limited tendering to the empanelled agencies. 
1. Load Flow Studies:
To calculate the voltage profile and active and reactive power flow under steady state 
conditions with various operating mode as well as to assess the requirement of reactive 
power support. The load flow studies shall be carried out in several combinations (Maximum 
40 Nos.) depending on the requirement of client (Present and Future requirements shall be 
specified by the owner). 
2. Short Circuit Studies:
Short Circuit Studies shall be carried out to determine the minimum and maximum fault 
levels at various buses, checking the adequacy of the existing equipment and suggest solution 
to limit the fault level within designed short circuit levels in the existing equipment and short 
circuit levels to be adapted in the future equipment. The short circuit study shall be carried 
out for all possible connectivity of GRID for present and for the future connectivity 
scenarios. The three phase and single line to ground faults at all major buses shall be 
computed and plotted. Short circuit study should consider the maximum and minimum fault 
levels at various buses of 400 kV , 220 KV , 11 KV , and 6.6 KV etc. 
3. Transient Stability Studies:
Transient Stability Studies shall be carried out to find out the maximum allowable time for 
Clearing the faults to prevent out of step operation of the system under transient conditions 
for various operating modes. This study shall be conducted to assess the behaviour of the 
existing and proposed equipment of client (Owner) for grid loading conditions. Transient 
study shall be carried out for the present connectivity and for the future proposed 
connectivity of the system. The transient stability study will be done keeping in view that two 
modes of operation separately i.e. in synchronized mode and in islanding mode. 
4. Small Signal Stability Studies:
To assess the small signal stability of the interconnected power system under various 
operating conditions and disturbances and recommend measures for improvement to ensure 
robust damping of low-frequency oscillations and overall system stability of the existing and 
future System. Identify critical low-damping modes and associated eigen vectors to determine 
mode shapes and critical machines. Suggest optimization of control parameters for improved 
damping performance. Identification of weak modes and associated generators/ other 
equipment. Recommendations for control tuning or additional damping measures. 
Annexure-I 
5. Motor Starting Studies:
Motor Starting Study for large HT motors shall comprise suitability of the existing starting 
methods and the effect on the system and other equipment when such motors are started. 
The simulation study shall be performed to determine starting current, voltage dip & slip-
torque characteristic of HT motor. The starting of major drives must be studied both in 
synchronized and islanding mode of the existing and future system as per the requirement of 
the client (Owner).  The study should be also carried out when start-up power is 
available from grid during blackout condition to start the available units of the existing 
system/future system. Studies for the selection of cable sizes for critical equipment/ drives. 
6. Harmonic Measurement and Analysis:
Harmonic Measurement and analysis shall cover measurement of harmonics (both voltage 
and current) including harmonic analysis at existing grid voltage level at owner (client) end 
and at load end (as per the requirement of the client). To Assess the power quality 
performance of the plant’s electrical system, identify any violations of IEEE/IEC power 
quality standards, and recommend corrective actions if required. To measure and analyse 
harmonics in the electrical network and assess compliance with IEEE 519/IEC 61000-4-7 
standards. Conduct on-site harmonic measurements for voltage and current harmonics 
(THDv and THDi) at selected feeders and PCCs, Capturing of individual harmonic order 
content up to the 50th harmonic. Analyse harmonic sources and propagation across the 
network. 
7. Flicker Analysis:
To perform flicker measurements as per IEC 61000-4-15 and evaluate their impact on 
connected loads and sensitive equipment. Identification of short-term (Pst) and long-term 
(Plt) flicker severity indices. Identification of loads contributing to voltage fluctuations (e.g., 
arc furnaces, large motors with frequent starts). Evaluate flicker propagation effects on 
sensitive areas of the plant. Suggestions for mitigation (e.g., passive/active filters, load 
sequencing, voltage stabilizers). 
8. Demand Side Management Study:
Demand management study shall be carried out to study the system characteristic in the 
event of tripping of a unit in case of partial or full load throw off during islanding & 
synchronized mode. The active and reactive power demand during pre and post islanding 
condition of the station has to be studied in detail. Particularly the reactive power generation 
ability of the station vis-à-vis voltage stability study in pre & post islanding condition to be 
studied. Tripping of loads and system islanding in case of system under voltage condition 
needs a thorough study. Adequacy of present islanding system and the condition for 
islanding needs thorough study. The bidder may propose better arrangement for safe 
islanding operation. 
9. Reactive power Compensation Study:
Annexure-I 
Reactive power compensation studies shall be carried out to study the reactive power 
requirement considering the present as well as future requirements and recommend suitable 
measures to be adopted to maintain the voltage profile.  
10. Grid Connectivity Studies:
The agency shall follow the “Report of the Working Group in respect of Data Submission 
Procedure and Verification of Compliance to CEA Regulations on Technical Standards for 
Connectivity to the Grid by RE Generators July 2022” and amendments/draft 
considerations thereof for conducting grid compliance system study. All the study(s) 
/report(s) shall be submitted to the NTPC for review and onwards submission to the 
RLDCs/SLDCs/NLDC/CTU for review(s). As per the observation(s)/comment(s) by the 
RLDCs/SLDCs/NLDC/CTU or NTPC during review(s), the study(s) /report(s) shall be 
revised by the agency. The agency has to ascertain that all the queries of NTPC/ 
CTU/RLDC /NLDC with respect to submitted document(s) are answered to their 
satisfaction. 
In addition to the above, the Generic RMS study models shall be compatible with PSS/E 
version 34.4 and above, EMT study models shall be compatible with PSCAD version 4.6 and 
above with Intel Visual FORTRAN version 12 or higher compiler. Power quality assessment 
study model shall also be submitted in PSCAD. If user written/defined models (UDM) are 
being provided, then submission of the source code and compiling procedure along with the 
model is mandatory. 
The agency shall submit associated files (PSSE/PSCAD/Python/.sld file/.dyr/.out/.plb 
etc.) including python recording/sequence of events simulated for a particular study/case for 
validation of study analysis results. 
The detailed scope of the grid connectivity study shall be prepared based on the specific 
requirement of each client which shall be shared to the empanelled agencies during the 
awarding of such work. 
The consultants should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated here under in Clause 
1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 for the empanelment under different categories as follows: 
Table 1: Empanelment Categories 
Sl. 
No Empanelment Category Clauses required to be met for the empanelment 
1 General Power System Studies 
Clause 1.0 (General Criteria), 2.1 (Technical 
Criteria) and Clause 3.0 (Financial Criteria) of QR 
only 
2 Grid Compliance Studies 
Clause 1.0 (General Criteria) and 2 .2 (Technical 
Criteria) and Clause 3.0 (Financial Criteria) of QR 
only 
3 Special Power System Studies 
Clause 1.0 (General Criteria) and 2 .3 (Technical 
Criteria) and Clause 3.0 (Financial Criteria) of QR 
only 
1.0 General Criteria 
The Applicant should have the following manpower on its regular pay roll for minimum 
one year period reckoned as on last date notified for receipt of application. 
1.1 Consultant should be a registered company/firm in india 
1.2 At least Five (5) full -time Technical Experts (minimum qualification BE/BTech in 
Electrical Engineering) and each having minimum four (04) years work experience in the 
area of Power system studies.  The experience certificate shall be certified by CEO / 
Director / managing partner of the Applicant. 
1.3 At least one (01) Senior Expert (minimum qualification BE/BTech in Electrical 
Engineering) and having minimum Eight (08) years work experience in the area of Power 
System Studies.  The experience certificate shall be certified by CEO / Director / 
managing partner of the Applicant. Applicant shall furnish, along with the bid, CV of all 
Experts as per NTPC Format, along with the documentary evidence/certificates.  
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR EMPANELMENT OF CONSULTANTS FOR 
GENERAL POWER SYSTEM STUDIES
Qualifying Requirement (QR)
Notes for Clause 1.0 
a. Consultant shall submit a copy of Certificate of Incorporation/Commencement of
Business in support of Clause 1.1 above.
b. Consultant shall submit a copy of Certificate of Registration of Firm, Partnership Deed,
PAN card, GST registration, and any other document (as applicable) in support of
Clause 1.1 above.
c. Consultant shall submit copies of Form 16/Group Provident Fund/ Pu blic Provided
Fund/ESI Statements being filed by them with the statutory authorities of Government
of India in support of Clause 1.2 and 1.3 above.
2.0 Technical Criteria 
2.1  General Power System Studies: 
2.1.1 The Applicant should have successfully completed at lea st one (1) power system study 
assignment for power utilities (Central Generating Stations/ independent power producers 
(IPPs)/ Inter State Generating Stations/ Captive Generating Plant)/ Transmission 
licensee/ Distribution licensees / SEBs/ State PSUs/ Central PSUs at 11 kV or above 
voltage level in last two (02) years as on date of bid opening.  
Notes for Clause 2.1: 
The Applicant who meets the eligibility criteria stipulated in Clause 2.1 shall submit an 
undertaking by CEO / Director / managing partner of the Applicant that the works 
completed by them contains at least any five of the following studies as evidence of 
completion of one (1) power system study assignment 
i. Load Flow Analysis
ii. Short Circuit Analysis
iii. Motor Starting studies.
iv. Harmonic Analysis
v. Relay Coordination
vi. Demand Side Management
vii. Reactive Power Compensation
viii. Insulation Coordination
ix. Protection/Relay Coordination Studies
2.2 Grid Compliance Studies: 
2.2.1 The Applicant should have successfully completed at least one (1) grid compliance study 
assignment for ISTS connected Thermal/ Hydro/ Gas/ CCPP/ Nuclear generating plants 
of 50 MW or higher capacity located in India in last two (02) years as on date of bid  
opening. 
Or 
2.2.2 The Applicant should have successfully completed at least one (1) grid compliance study  
assignments for integration of ISTS connected Solar/ Wind/ Hybrid project with/ without 
BESS having capacity of 20 MW or more located in india in last two (02) years as on date 
of bid opening. 
Notes for Clause 2.2.2: 
The Applicant who meets the eligibility criteria stipulated in Clause 2.2.2 shall submit an 
undertaking by CEO / Director / managing partner of the Applicant that the works 
completed by them is/are as per “Report of the Working Group in respect of Data 
Submission Procedure and Verification of Compliance to CEA Regulations on Technical 
Standards for Connectivity to the Grid by RE Generators July 2022” and amendments 
thereof for conducting grid compliance system study. 
2.3 Special Power System Studies: 
2.3.1 The Applicant should have successfully completed at least one (1) special power system 
study assignments involving Grid Islanding/ SSS (Small Signal stability analysis)/ SSO 
(Sub-Synchronous Oscillation)/ SSR (Sub -Synchronous Resonance) Studies for 
Generating Stations/ Transmission Utilities/ System Operators/ Renewable Energy 
developers/ Government agencies for a system connected at 132 kV or above voltage level. 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
a) The Applicant shall submit valid supporting documents (such as copy of Purchase Orders/
Contract agreements/ Client Certificates etc) as evidence of meeting the essential
qualification criteria.
b) The Applicant shall submit valid license certificate(s) with an undertaking by CEO /
Director / Managing partner/ Authorised representative of the Applicant for ensuring the
validity of the following software till the tenure of empanelment period as evidence of
meeting the essential qualification criteria.
Empanelment Category Software Name 
Empanelment Category Software Name 
General Power System Studies 
Atleast two of the following power 
system analysis software tools. 
DIgSILENT Power Factory (version 
2024 or above) 
ETAP (Version 22.5 or above) 
EMTP (version 4.2 or above) 
PSCAD (version 5.02 or above) 
PSS®E (version 35.6 or above) 
Grid Compliance Studies 
Two of the following power system 
analysis software tools. 
PSCAD (version 5.02 or above) 
PSS®E (version 35.6 or above) 
Special Power System Studies 
1. PSCAD (version 5.02 or above) or
EMTP (Version 4.2 or above).
2. PSS®E (version 35.6 or above) with
eigenvalue analysis modules, or
DIgSILENT Power Factory (version
2024 or above).
3. Any other equivalent software 
capable of conducting 
electromechanical mode  analysis, 
frequency domain studies, and time -
domain SSR. 
c) In case the reference work was awarded to the Applicant either directly by the
plant/substation owner or through an intermediary organization, the Applicant shall
furnish the supporting documents (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Contract
agreements/ Client Certificates etc) from the respective plant/substation owner or
intermediary organization, in support of its claim of meeting the stipulated requirements.
d) Applicants may submit their application for enlistment in one or more than one category
as indicated in Table-1.
3.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
3.1 The average annual turnover of the Applicant, in the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on the date of opening of techno -commercial bids, should not be less than INR X Lakhs 
(Indian Rupees X Lakhs Only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
The Average Annual Turnover Figure, marked as X, shall be specified based on the project 
capacity and the figure shall be verified for each Project based on the cost estimate of the 
corresponding tender. Subsequent to enlistment, enquiry will be issued to Applicants 
fulfilling financial criteria of the specific tender. 
3.2 Net Worth of the Applicant as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be 
less than 100% (hundred percent) of Applicant’s paid-up share capital.  
In case the Applicant does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a 
case, the Net worth of  the Applicant and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, 
their Net worth shoul d not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid 
up share capitals. 
 Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1, X2, X3 are 
individual Net worth which s hould not be less than 75% of the respective paid up share 
capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
In case the Applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Applicant can be 
considered acceptable provided the Applicant further furnishes the following documents 
on substantiation of its qualification: 
Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Applicant along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company.  
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the last date notified for 
receipt of application are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case the Applicant is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited result of three (3) consecutive financial years preceding  the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per format enclosed in the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the company are under audit as  on techno-commercial 
bid opening and the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available.  
Notes for Clause 3.0: 
a. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up  share capital and free reserves. Free
reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any,
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus,
b. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
c. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per
Companies Act of India.
d. For Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days
prior to Techno Commercial Bid Opening date shall be used.
e. *The average Annu al Turnover figure marked as X, shall be specified based on the
Project capacity and the figure shall be verified for each Project based on the cost
estimate of the corresponding project.
Clause No. Existing Amended as 
28.0 
REVIEW OF 
ENLISTED 
VENDORS 
FOR POOR 
PERFORMA
NCE, 
FRAUDULE
NT ACTS: 
In case of unsatisfactory performance 
of the enlisted vendors, respective 
Station shall take necessary action 
against the Vendor for withholding/ 
banning business dealings, in line with 
NTPC banning policy. 
Vendor shall be de-enlisted for the 
balance period of his enlistment if Pan 
NTPC banning action taken against any 
vendor. 
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor 
is found to have been involved in any 
fraudulent activities like submission of 
fake credentials/ document/ 
information as deﬁned in NTPC Fraud 
prevention policy/ banning policy 
during enlistment process of VEC, VEC 
shall take necessary action in line with 
Fraud Prevention Policy. 
In case of unsatisfactory performance of the 
enlisted vendors, respective Station shall 
take necessary action against the Vendor for 
withholding/ banning business dealings, in 
line with NTPC banning policy. 
If any vendor is debarred/banned by NTPC as 
per NTPC's policy for Debarment/ banning 
from business dealings, the vendor shall be 
de- enlisted for the period for which the 
debarment/banning would be operative as 
per the debarment/banning order. 
Post lifting of debarment /banning order  
such vendor's enlistment status will be 
restored for the balance period ( if any ) of 
enlistment in which the agency was enlisted 
pre-banning. 
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor is 
found to have been involved in any 
fraudulent activities like submission of fake 
credentials/ document/ information as 
deﬁned in NTPC Fraud prevention policy/ 
banning policy during enlistment process of 
VEC, VEC shall take necessary action in line 
with Fraud Prevention Policy. 
Amendment in Standard terms and conditions clause no 28 (Amendment no. 3)
Clause No. Existing Amended as 
7.0 ENLISTMENT 
CALENDAR: 
In order to  optimize the enlistment 
process, vendor enlistment & up 
gradation of each enlistment group 
shall be done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end on 
31st December. A period of six weeks 
shall be allotted against each MEG/ 
CEG, for inviting applications from 
vendors. 
In order to optimize the enlistment 
process, vendor enlistment & up 
gradation of each enlistment group 
shall be done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end 
on 31st December. Each MEG/ CEG 
shall be allotted a period for inviting 
applications from vendors.  
11.0 CUT OFF DATE 
TO APPLY FOR 
ENLISTMENT: 
Vendor enlistment & up gradation for 
each enlistment group shall be done 
once in year as per the ‘Enlistment 
Calendar’. The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ 
shall commence from 01st April and 
end on 31st December. A period of six 
weeks shall be allotted against each 
MEG / CEG, for inviting applications 
from vendors.  
Vendor enlistment & up gradation 
for each enlistment group shall be 
done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment  Calendar’.  The 
‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end 
on 31st December. Each MEG/ CEG 
shall be allotted a period for inviting 
applications from vendors.  
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
Amendment in Standard terms and conditions clause no. 7 & 11 (Amendment no 2)
Amendment in Standard Terms and Conditions clause no 9 (Amendment no 1)
Clause 
No: 9.0 HOW TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
Clause 
Amended 
as: 
In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the 
verification and certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from 
any of the TPIAs as mentioned at NTPC tender website 
(https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under the tab:  
“Policy Docs”  “Policy for Document Authentication Process in Tenders of 
NTPC Ltd”.  
However, Applicants must verify the accreditation validity of the designated 
TPIA before proceeding to engage them for document certification.  
The following website may be referred for contact details and accreditation validity 
of above referred TPIAs: 
https://nabcb.qci.org.in/inspection-body/ 
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, 
which is not certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the applicant, as 
per the format enclosed, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the 
purpose of evaluation, and the Application shall be liable for rejection. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS (STC) AND 
GUIDELINESFOR ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS  
1.0 INTRODUCTION: 
NTPC Limited (A Government of India Enterprise), a Maharatna Company is India's largest power utility 
with present installed capacity of more than 86,000 MW with 27 Coal based, 7 Gas/ Liquid fuel based, 1 
Hydro Power Plant and 21 Joint Venture / Subsidiary Power Stations etc,. These projects are located in 
various geographical locations across the country. 
2.0 MAJOR BUSINESS OPPORUNITY: 
The requirement of spares, consumables & works contract for NTPC power plants, offers major business 
opportunity to the vendors & contract executing agencies. 
3.0 SCOPE OF ENLISTMENT: 
NTPC Limited is in the process of online vendor enlistment, for Procurements & Contracts (covering O&M, 
Non O&M / Service departments and Civil works). However, NTPC at its discretion may use this vendor 
enlistment for other procurement activities also. The intent of this enlistment is to identify and enlist 
prospective vendors /  contractors who meet Technical Qualifying Requirements envisaged. This 
enlistment will be applicable for all running NTPC Stations/ Subsidiaries/ Joint Ventures. Vendor 
enlistment process is a  continuous process with the option to add / delete/ modify any Material 
Enlistment Group (MEG) / Contract Enlistment Group (CEG) at any time without any prior notice. Similarly, 
any vendor desirous to get their names enlisted/ updated themselves in the approved list can do so as per 
Enlistment Calendar. However, such request shall be evaluated in the subsequent cycle only. 
Enlistments shall be done for Regular Contracts/ Procurements and also Mega Contracts/ Procurements 
of Estimated Cost as per following categories for NTPC Stations/Projects: 
Category -1: 
(Regular Enlistments) 
CEGs upto 4 Crs 
MEGs upto 15 Crs 
Category -2: 
(Mega Cases) 
CEGs above 4 Crs & upto Rs 50 Crs 
MEGs above 15 Crs & upto Rs 50 Crs 
Enlistment will be done only for Manufacturers. However, for exceptional cases, Suppliers or Authorized 
Dealers / Agents etc. can be considered for enlistment subject to MEG / CEG specific provision of qualifying 
requirement. Decision of NTPC in this regard shall be final and binding. 
 roup shall be done once in year as per the ‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
Clause has been modified as per Amendment-2 
 he ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall commence from 01st April and end on 31st December. A period 
of 
4.0 STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS (STC) FOR ENLISTMENT: 
This document will be applicable for enlistment of vendors both for services including consultancy 
& non consultancy and supply of materials, as identified / to be identified time to time, as per the 
requirement of various stations of NTPC. The document explains the details regarding 
the modality and terms & conditions for enlistment.  
5.0 MATERIALS/ WORKS FOR WHICH ENLISTMENT IS REQUIRED: 
Material identified for enlistment are segregated into various groups termed as Material Enlistment 
Group (MEG). Similarly, the works packages are classified as Contract Enlistment Group 
(CEG). Updated/ active list of MEGs and CEGs under enlistment are available at the home page of 
website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/  
Technical qualifying requirements to be met by applicants against each MEG / CEG, are also available 
in the website.  
6.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE FOR VENDOR ENLISTMENT: 
Vendor Enlistment Cell (VEC) of NTPC, situated at Sector-24, Naya Raipur (C.G.), shall be the 
Responsibility Centre for enlistment of MEGs / CEGs as per Enlistment Calendar.  
The address and contact details of VEC along with the details of MEGs/ CEGs, are available at 
website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/  
Apart from regular Enlistments, Special group(s) may be published in the portal for 
enlistment/ empanelment/ registration. For such groups, Responsibility Centres shall be as 
indicated in the Enlistment Notification itself.  
7.0 ENLISTMENT CALENDAR: 
 n order to optimize the enlistment process, vendor enlistment & up gradation of each enlistmen  
8.0 UPLOADING MEGs/ CEGs & PUBLICITY: 
List of MEGs/ CEGs with relevant details as mentioned above shall be updated at website 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ time to time.  
Vendor Enlistment Cell will publish the abridged version of the notice for enlistment for the MEGs/ CEGs 
on our websites https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ & www.ntpctender.com as per the Enlistment Calendar. 
ase documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the ve 
ification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIA 
Société Générale de Surveillance / SGS India Pvt. Ltd.(SGS)  
Gulf Lloyds Industrial Services (India) Pvt. Ltd (GLISPL) 
International Certification Services (ICS)  
TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
 
 
Clause has been modified as per 
Amendment-1 
9.0 HOW TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
Interested potential vendors / contractors are advised to regularly visit the website 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ for updates and apply online for the MEG/ CEG of their interest and for which 
they would meet corresponding Technical Qualifying Requirement mentioned against the MEG/CEG. 
Interested vendors are to apply and upload / submit only online the relevant documents (credentials) 
as required for enlistment against corresponding MEG/ CEG.  
No fee is required to be paid for enlistment. No offline application would be entertained by NTPC. 
It is required to submit applications with digitally signed relevant credentials by the Authorized 
Signatory. The same should be uploaded on the website for vendor enlistment in respect of individual 
MEG/ CEG as per required documents/ details and corresponding specified QR.  
It should be clearly noted by the applicant that while applying for vendor enlistment on website, the 
basic and financial information need to be filled up only once. The MEG/ CEG related information 
should be filled up for each MEG/CEG separately. The applicant can apply for as many MEGs/CEGs as 
he wishes, provided that he has required technical qualification.  
Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which 
Applicants submit, will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the 
Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
Applicants, required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the documents, 
such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc., duly 
certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or 
specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Applicants can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Auditor 
certifying the data required in support to their past experiences.  
Such applicant shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their 
Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA along with a certificate regarding verification of authenticity 
of documents as per the format placed at Annexure-IIIA (Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ 
or Annexure-IIIB (Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the applicant shall be 
d
igitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
. TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group) 
. Intertek India Pvt. Ltd. 
. Moody International (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
. RINA India Pvt. Ltd. 
0. Competent Inspectorate and Consultants LLP 
he following website may be referred for contact details of above ten (10) TPIAs: 
ttp://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php 
ny document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is no 
ertified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the applicant, as per the format enclosed, shal 
ot be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the application shall b  
The Applicant shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials verified & certified by their 
Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs pertaining to third party verification and 
certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be borne by the Applicant. NTPC shall have 
no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute 
between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor.  
10.0 BASIS FOR ENLISTMENT: 
NTPC shall evaluate the credentials uploaded by the applicant to determine as to whether technical 
aspects are in accordance with the Qualifying Requirements set for the respective MEG/CEG. 
Subsequently, at the sole discretion of NTPC, physical assessment of establishment (s)/ verification 
of document (s)/ may also be carried out, if felt necessary by NTPC. Vendor should not have any 
objection to such physical assessment / verification etc. All technically qualified vendors shall be 
enlisted against respective MEG/ CEG and their annual turnover and/or execution capability shall be 
mapped in the system for further usage. The decision of NTPC in this regard shall be final and binding. 
NTPC shall evaluate only those cases, which are complete in all respects, and which are prima-facie 
found to be qualified based on the responses given. Any incomplete request or deficiency of 
document(s) will run the risk of rejection. In the process of vendor enlistment, NTPC may seek 
additional information/ clarification and vendor must be ready to furnish promptly any such 
information, so asked for.  
Any vendor currently under NCLT/ NCLAT or debarred/ banned/ blacklisted/ Under Withholding/ 
Under Suspension of Business Dealing on Pan NTPC basis shall not be considered for enlistment. 
However, such vendors may be considered for enlistment only after expiry of the debarment/ 
banning/ blacklisting/ Withholding/ Suspension period. If any vendor, is debarred/ banned in 
participating at any tender for working/ supplying at any particular station/ region of NTPC, shall 
continue to remain debarred/banned for that station/ region even after enlistment on PAN NTPC  
 
 
 
9 
Clause has been modified as per 
 
T Amendment-1 
 
 
 

endor enlistment & up gradation for each enlistment group shall be done once in year as per th 
Enlistment Calendar’. The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall commence from 01st April and end on 31s 
ecember. A period of six weeks shall be allotted against each MEG / CEG, for inviting application 
rom vendors.  
 
 
 
Clause has been modified as per Amendment-2
basis, till expiry of banning/blacklisting period or else banning order is revoked by concerned station/ 
region. 
11.0 CUT OFF DATE TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
Identification of MEGs / CEGs for a particular six-week period in the aforesaid calendar shall be 
notified in the portal time to time. Vendors intending to get themselves enlisted within the cycle 
need to apply online within cutoff date. All applications received within stipulated cutoff date shall 
be evaluated progressively.  
Vendor should ensure that only relevant documents are uploaded. After the cutoff date and time for 
any particular evaluation cycle, vendor will not be permitted for any such change. In case, during 
evaluation of credentials, if any additional or relevant documents is required by NTPC, the same 
should be uploaded online in response to the time-bound clarification(s) sought. 
12.0 INSTRUCTION FOR APPLYING ONLINE: 
Interested vendors may open the website ( https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ ) and create USER-ID themselves for 
enlistment by filling USER-ID creation form online. System generated e-mail shall be sent to the vendor 
giving ID & password for authentication & activation. Vendors shall log in to the website with this ID and 
password. After log in, the system shall ask for change of password, ID remaining same. Vendors, in their 
own interest should change the password. 
After log in, the page opened shall show the details required which should be correctly filled in. It is 
required that the digitally signed (by the authorized signatory) document of the relevant credential shall 
be uploaded in “PDF form” as per the instructions shown on the page. Star (*) marked fields are 
mandatory. 
13.0 HOW TO FILL THE APPLICATION FOR ENLISTMENT: 
For creation of User-ID, following information has to be provided: 
a) Notice Inviting Application (NIA) No: Refers to NTPC NIA No., if any. Otherwise, leave it blank.
b) NTPC SAP VENDOR CODE: Existing vendors having NTPC SAP vendor code may fill their respective
SAP vendor code. Other vendors may leave it blank.
c) NAME OF THE ORGANISATION: Registered Name of the company to be filled.
d) Email ID: Refers to email ID of the applicant vendor, which will be registered with the website.
User ID, password will be sent in that e-mail only. Future communication will be made through
this email ID & loss of password etc will also be reset with the help of this e-mail. As far as possible,
company specific e-mail ID shall be used, as this would be used for all future communication. In
case of employee specific e-mail ID complications may arise in future on separation of the 
concerned employee. 
e) Landline no: Telephone no with STD Code to be filled.
f) Address for communication: City, region, country, postal code to be filled.
g) Name of the contact person: The person responsible for future contact, preferably, the authorized
signatory in whose name the Power of Attorney is issued.
h) Mobile no: Cell no. of contact person to be filled.
On submitting the above information, system generated User ID and PASSWORD will be mailed to the 
email ID provided above. 
The vendor has to use this USER ID and PASSWORD and log in to the website for providing further 
information and uploading of required documents and credentials. 
This is explained below in brief: 
A. Name of Authorized Signatory- The person authorized by the company to sign the documents on
their behalf. The competent person of the company should issue the power of attorney in
person’s name.
B. Mobile no: Cell no of authorized signatory.
C. LETTER OF UNDERTAKING (LOU)- The format is available on the home page of website
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Letter of Undertaking (LOU) should be executed on stamp paper of
requisite value. Digitally Signed (by the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same
should be uploaded online along with their application.
D. POWER OF ATTORNEY- Power of Attorney format given on the home page of website
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Power Of Attorney (POA) should be executed on stamp paper of
requisite value. Digitally Signed (by the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same
should be uploaded online along with their application.
E. Choose Option for enlistment- For Supply or works or both as per their applicable area of business
and credentials.
F. Permanent account no., GSTIN - PAN & GSTIN of the Company. Copy to be uploaded.
G. Other information as asked to be filled.
H. PF Code- Applicable for works contact category only. Copy of relevant certificate to be uploaded.
I. Details of Purchase orders received from NTPC to be filled.
J. MSE Reg no- As applicable Copy of relevant certificate to be uploaded.
K. Choose works category-Vendor has to select the work category such as: Mechanical works,
Electrical works, C&I works, Civil works, Miscellaneous works or other works.
L. Choose supplier type- The vendor has to choose supplier type such as: Manufacturer, Supplier,
authorized dealer, agent etc.
M. Type of company: Proprietorship, partnership etc to be selected.
N. ISO9000, ISO 14000, ISO18500, SA8000 Certification to be confirmed. Copy of relevant Certificate
to be uploaded.
O. Annual Turn Over figure paid up share capital, reserves & surpluses for last three financial years
to be filled and audited balance sheet and profit & loss statement with Unique Document
Identification Number (UDIN), to be uploaded.
P. Date of incorporation- to be mentioned and certificate of incorporation to be uploaded.
Q. Purchase order no, date, awarding company name, and invoice details- are to be filled. It may be
noted that three highest purchase orders copy received during the last five years to be mentioned
and uploaded. It will decide their execution capability. The purchase orders mentioned should be
for the same/similar item(s)/works for which vendor are registering for enlistment. Similar work
definition for a particular CEG/MEG will be available in Qualifying Requirement document.
Documents should be duly certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory
Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) , failing which the
application for enlistment is liable for rejection.
R. Select the correct MEG /CEG as per area of business and credentials being uploaded.
S. Change of entity of organization: Details to be filled and uploaded.
T. (*) is mandatory fields
U. Proof of being a manufacturer – UDYAM Registration/ NSIC/SSI/MSME registration certificate/BIS
license / ISO certificate/ Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department/ any
other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material.
V. Acceptance of “Fraud prevention policy” and “NTPC banning policy”.
W. Basic order value and basic executed value of the purchase orders received and executed, other
income etc are to be filled.
X. Information regarding referral to BIFR, Debarment/ Banning/ Blacklisting by Govt/ PSU/ any
Company etc, Debarment/ Banning/ Withholding/ Suspension by NTPC.
Y. GePNIC ID- All prospective applicants are required to register themselves on Government e- 
procurement system of NIC on https://eprocurentpc.nic.in and GePNIC vendor ID is to be
provided.
14.0 IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS: 
I. Fee: There will be no fee applicable for submitting application for enlistment.
II. The applicant is required to correctly select the Material Enlistment Group (MEG) / Contract
Enlistment Group (CEG) for which they intend to get enlisted. They should read the Technical
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for enlistment for the MEG / CEG carefully. The documents required
must be copied, signed by the authorized signatory, stamped with the company seal and scanned
copy of the same should be uploaded in PDF form.
III. Documents which are mandatory must be uploaded duly certified and verified for authenticity
from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection
Agency (TPIA), failing which the application for enlistment is liable for rejection.
IV. Incomplete applications are liable for rejection.
V. NTPC reserves the right to verify the authenticity of the information / documents furnished as
well as accept / reject application/s in full or part without assigning any reason whatsoever. No
correspondence/ queries will be entertained in this regard.
15.0 ONLINE DOCUMENTS: 
After filling all the required details and uploading the documents online, applicants have to submit the 
applications online. 
The “Power of attorney” and “Declaration regarding authenticity of the credentials i.e. Letter of 
Undertaking (LOU)” are required to be executed on stamp paper of requisite value. Digitally Signed (by 
the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same should be uploaded online along with their 
application. 
All applications received till the cutoff date shall be evaluated progressively. If found eligible, they will be 
considered for enlistment. 
The name of the responsibility centre for processing of the enlistment against each MEG/CEG is 
mentioned in the website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Vendors should make sure that the submission of 
application is completed well in advance to avoid last minute rush. 
16.0 OFFLINE DOCUMENTS: 
No hardcopy is required to be sent / submitted while submitting the application. 
All the uploaded documents are to be kept with vendor in original and shall have to be provided whenever 
asked for. Failing to do so, may lead to action inline to the NTPC Withholding & Banning policy. 
17.0 EVALUATION CRITERIA & PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS: 
17.1 Application received up to predetermined cutoff date shall be considered for evaluation. The 
received applications evaluation shall start only after notified cutoff date in the priority as decided by 
NTPC. Submitted documents in support of execution of similar supply/ works shall be verified as 
per requirement by the evaluation committee from the respective certificate issuing 
agency. The applicants meeting the technical qualifying requirements  shall  be  shortlisted  
for  enlistment. 
17.2 Physical Assessment: 
For the vendors shortlisted by the respective evaluation committee, at the sole discretion of NTPC, 
physical assessment of establishment (s)/ verification of document (s)/ may also be carried out, if felt 
necessary by NTPC. Vendor should not have any objection to such physical assessment / verification etc. 
The observations/ finding of the assessment committee should also be signed by the vendor being 
assessed. 
17.3 Mapping of data of enlisted vendors (Average Annual Turnover and Execution Capability): 
Average annual turnover and Execution Capability value will be mapped against each 
technically qualified vendor. The vendor has to submit financial details and upload 
supporting documents which shall be the basis for ascertaining their financial capability as 
mentioned in evaluation criteria clause no 20. Presently no pre-determined financial 
criteria (Average Annual Turnover) and execution capability criteria are being stipulated. 
However, all applicants have to upload necessarily the following documents: 
i) Average Annual Turnover (AATO): Audited Balance sheet and Profit & loss account for last
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of submission of application.
Audited Balance sheet and Profit & Loss statement of the company giving annual sales turn
over during preceding three completed financial years reckoned from the date of submission
of application for enlistment, has to be furnished.
Any Certificate(s) / Financial  Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant 
of India (ICAI), which Applicants submit, will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute  of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI). 
From this, Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of the company shall be worked out and shall be 
recorded against the MEG/CEG for the enlisted vendors. This will be the eligibility limit for 
Average Annual Turnover of the respective enlisted vendor for sending tender enquiry later 
(but during the validity period of enlistment only). 
ii) Execution Capability (EC): Three Purchase Orders of highest executed value for similar
item(s) / works during last Five (05) years reckoned from the date of submission of application
for enlistment along with documents to ascertain the execution of Purchase Orders submitted
i.e. Copies of invoices, LR, e-way bills, completion certificate from the client, have to be
furnished. The eligibility limit of the vendors for execution capability shall be worked out as
follows:-
(a) Determination of Execution Capability (EC):
Maximum three work order s as per the definiti on of similar work s shall be considered as 
credential for calculation of the execution capability (EC) in the following manner: 
If the vendor gives one PO wit h highest executed value of P, then the vendor will be eligible 
for tender enquiry up to the cost estimate limited to value equal to "1.25xP" subject to other 
conditions. 
In case of two POs submitted with highest executed values P & Q (where P>Q), then higher of 
the two figures obtained from "1.25xP and 2xQ" shall be the limit of cost estimate up to which 
the  vendor  is  eligible  for  tender  enquiry  subject  to  other  conditions. 
If the company furnishes three Purchase order s with highest executed value as P, Q & R 
(where P>Q>R), then out of the figures obtained from: "1.25xP, 2xQ and 2.5xR", the highest 
value is the limit of cost estimate up to which the vendor is eligible for tender enquiry subject 
to other conditions. 
(b) Selection of enlisted vendor s for sending tender enquiry: When actu al requirement
emerges, based on the estimated cost and completion period required, selection of eligible
vendors from amongst enlisted vendors shall be done as mentioned at Para No. 20.0 below.
Notes: 
1. Vendors, in their own interest, should furnish the orders with highest value(s) executed by them
along with documentary proof for the execution of said orders. It may also to be understood that such
past execution values shall determine their execution capability and eligibility to consider for sending
tender enquiry against the material / work later.
2. Documentary evidence of execution of supply of similar item in the past, only in the name of the
organization  which  is  submitting  the  application  for  enlistment  shall  be  considered.
3. For the purpose of Enlistment, Applicants shall be evaluated on the basis of required supporting
documents submitted for Technical Requirements along with financial documents, order copies &
execution proof etc. Even though an Applicant may satisfy the above requirements, he would be liable
to disqualification if he has made misleading or false representation or deliberately concealed the
information  in  the  forms,  statements  and  enclosures  required  in  the  application.
4. Merely Submission of application form by vendor cannot be construed to mean that the vendor is
qualified & entitled for issue of any / all tenders by NTPC.
5. If applying for upgradation of Execution Capability and or AATO, applicant should upload all the
purchase order and financial related documents afresh. Documents uploaded in earlier cycle may not
be taken into cognizance while evaluating the application.
18.0 VALIDITY OF ENLISTMENT: 
Vendors shall be enlisted for two years from the date of approval, subject to fulfillment of the terms 
& conditions.   The period of empanelment will be initially for two (02) years, with a provision to 
cancel/delistany or all the enlisted parties based on the performance & also include new consultants in 
the list.The period of Empanelment can be extended up to another one (01) year on the same terms & 
conditions, at the sole discretion of NTPC.
19.0 CERTIFICATE OF VENDOR ENLISTMENT: 
After approval, Certificate of Enlistment indicating enlistment details and terms & conditions shall 
be made available to the enlisted vendors through mail . 
20.0 Evaluation Criteria for Empanelment of Agencies for Power System Studies: 
a. Evaluation of Applications:
Vendor shall submit the enlistment application along with all supporting documents through 
digital signature of authorized signatory and Evaluation shall be done as per the details submitted 
along with uploaded documents. The bids received and accepted will be evaluated by Tender 
Committee (TC) to ascertain Technical & Commercial responsiveness as per the QR and other 
requirements defined in the bidding document. If a Bid is found to be non-responsive, it shall be 
liable for rejection. 
b. Technical Evaluation criteria:
Empanelment of Consultants for Power System Studies shall be carried out under the following categories:
Table-1 
Sl. 
No. Empanelment category Reference clause of Technical Criteria of QR 
1 General Power system Studies Clause 1.0 (General Criteria) and 2.1 (Technical 
Criteria) of QR only 
2 Grid Compliance Studies Clause 1.0 (General Criteria) and 2.2 (Technical 
Criteria) of QR only 
3 Special Power System Studies Clause 1.0 (General Criteria) and 2.3 (Technical 
Criteria) of QR only 
All the bidders who are meeting the QR criteria of Technical and Financial (Net Worth of the 
Applicant as on the last day of the preceding financia l year should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of Applicant’s paid-up share capital) shall be shortlisted for empanelment (Approved QR is 
attached as Annexure-A ). Actual AATO shall be obtained from all the applicants of 
empanelment during the empanelment process. However, the empanelment of these vendors shall 
be limited to their execution capability as per the following. 
c. Execution Capability Calculation
The vendor is required to furnish the details of three POs of highest executed value for similar 
works during last five years from the date of application; based on these data the value for which 
vendor will qualify shall be established. Accordingly, execution capability of the vendor to 
execute similar work shall be calculated for each vendor as defined in the following table with an 
example:
AATO 
Capability of Execution 
similar work as per PO 
values  
PO‐1 PO-2 PO-3 
80 
PO Value 70 60 50 
Execution Capability as per 
One/Two/Three POs 
70X1.25=87.50 
(EC up to 87.5) 
60X2=120 
(EC up to 120) 
50X2.5=125 
(EC up to 125) 
Execution Capability of the 
Vendor to execute similar 
work  
125 
(Highest of 87.5, 120 and 125) 
Vendor is capable to execute work up to cost estimate 
of 125  i.e., eligibility limit of enlistment up to cost 
estimate of 125. 
AATO and Highest of the three eligibility limits shown in the table will be recorded in the 
system for 
selection of Enlisted vendors for issuing tender enquiry after enlistment. 
d. Selection 
of vendor for tender enquiry of any assignment
After enlistment, wherever requirement emerges at any NTPC Own projects and consultancy
projects assignment, based on the cost estimate and the execution period, the list of vendors to
whom enquiry can be issued (out of all qualified enlisted vendors for the respective category)
shall be selected as follows:
• Contracts where the execution period is less than or equal to one year.
Vendors having AATO>=CE and EC>=CE will be eligible to participate in the tender
• Contracts where the execution period is more than one year
Vendor having AATO>=CEX12/CP and EC>=CE will be eligible to participate in the tender 
Only AATO of the vendors who meets the technical QR and Net worth criteria of Financial QR will 
be recorded in the system for selection of enlisted vendors for issuing tender enquiry. 
(Note: AATO is annual average turnover, CE is estimated cost, EC-Execution Capability and CP 
is completion period/Delivery period in months) 
Further provisions of NTPC Vision document Ref No. 01/VDC/Vision Document with its revision 
shall be followed for other standard procedures. 
21.0 RENEWAL OF ENLISTMENT: 
Before completion of t wo (2) years, already enlisted vendors can apply with their fresh credentials 
for enlistment  for a further period. If  their credentials are found in order, their enlistment shall be 
done accordingly. Their enlistment shall be valid for t wo years from the date of approval. It may be 
noted th at the s yste m will autom atically dele te the e nlisted vendo r after ex piry of its validity.
Therefore, Ve ndor a t their i nterest shou ld take appr opriate ac tion to updat e their records / 
resub mit t he applicat ion w ell in adva nce so as n ot to fa ce a ny su ch eventualit ies to delet ion of 
their names from the approved list and stop getting tender enquiries from NTPC.  
22.0 E-TENDER (GePNIC & GeM) REQUIREMENT FROM ENLISTED VENDOR: 
NTPC is procuring goods & services through e-tender mode. Enquiry is issued either in Government e- 
procurement system of NIC (GePNIC) or in Government e- marketplace (GeM) portal. Hence, vendors 
are advised to register themselves on GePNIC portal https://eprocurentpc.nic.in and https://gem.gov.in/. 
They require CLASS III Digital Signature (with Organization name), for participation in e-tender. Bidders 
will not be able to receive & participate in e-tender if they do not have the required digital certificate. For 
further details, vendor may visit our GePNIC portal and GeM portals. 
23.0 FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY: 
Provision s of NTPC Fraud Preventio n policy shall apply for the enlistment s being done. The applicant 
shall strictl y adhere to the Fraud Preventio n polic y of NTPC.  
Copy of the same is available at portal (https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ ). 
24.0 DEBARMENT / WITHHOLDING / BANNING POLICY: 
Copy of the "Policy & Procedur e for Debarmen t from Busines s Dealings " of NTPC availabl e at portal 
(https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ ). 
28.0 REVIEW OF ENLISTED VENDORS FOR POOR PERFORMANCE, FRAUDULENT ACTS: In case of unsatisfactory performance of the enlisted vendors, respective Station shall take necessary 
action against the Vendor for withholding/ banning business dealings, in line with NTPC banning 
policy. 
Vendor shall be de-enlisted for the balance period of his enlistment if Pan NTPC banning action taken 
against any vendor.  
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor is found to have been involved in any fraudulent activities 
like submission of fake credentials/ document/ information as defined in NTPC Fraud prevention  
Clause has been modified as 
per Amendment-3 
policy/ banning policy during enlistment process of VEC, VEC shall take necessary action in line with 
Fraud Prevention Policy.  
25.0 DELISTING OF ENLISTED VENDORS 
The enliste d vendo r shall be de-liste d from the approve d Vendo r list for the balanc e validit y period 
of enlistment on th e followin g ground:-  
 If any enlis ted ven dor fo r a partic u lar M E G / wo rks pack age d oes not partici p ate at le ast o nce in 
Three years in any of the tenders issued to them from any NTPC stations/ SSC/USSC, then they may 
be delisted from the approved Vendor List.  
26.0 SUBCONTRACTING PROVISION FOR WORKS PACKAGES 
The enli sted contra ctor s hall only be gi ven the aw ard ba se d on evalua tio n of the bids. Generally 
subcontr a cti ng o f the work wil l no t be perm itted for site awa rded w orks pack ages. How ever, in 
cer tain excepti o nal ca ses as per site spe cific require m en t it may be allo wed w ith the appro val of 
Head of Station but the due reasons are to be recorded by site in such cases.  
However , 100% back to back subcontractin g will not be allowe d in any case. 
 If any subcontr a ct or is fo und execu ting the cont ract awa rde d to the enli sted contra ctor without 
app ro val of NTPC, a ction a gains t the main contr acto r w ill be take n for withho l ding/ ba nning of 
business dealings as per NTPC Policy.  
27.0 COURT OF JURIDICTION: 
The Courts at Delhi shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to entertain and try any dispute relating to 
online vendor Enlistment process of NTPC.  
28.0 SUBMISSION OF UNDERTAKING PERTAINING TO GEM REGISTRATION AND PARTICIPATION IN 
NTPC LTD TENDERS: 
Applicants are required to submit an Undertaking pertaining to GeM Registration and participation 
in NTPC Ltd Tenders, as per format enclosed as Annexure-IV, along with their application for Vendor 
Enlistment.  
29.0 Conflict of Interest: 
An enlisted vendor during their participation in a Tender as a bidder, should ensure that they do not 
h ave con flic t of inter est w ith ot her bidd ers. S uch con flic t of inter est can l ea d to anti-competitive 
pract ice s to the detrim en t of Emplo y er’s intere sts. The crit eria b ase d on w hi ch a bi dder shall be 
considered to have a conflict of interest with one or more parties in the bidding process, shall be as 
per provisions of the bidding documents of the specific Tender.  

During the bidding process/bids invited amongst the enlisted parties, the bidder shall have to submit 
their acceptance/compliance of provisions of Bidding Documents, regarding “Conflict of Interest”.  
In case it is established that Bidder has provided any false information in pursuance of the aforesaid 
Clause, while competing for the contract, then its bid shall be rejected and EMD/bid security shall be 
forfeited. In case of a successful bidder, if it is established that the Bidder has not complied with 
terms of aforesaid Clause, during execution of contract, this would be considered as fraudulent 
practice as mentioned in para 5.1 (j) of “Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings” and shall be 
dealt accordingly.  
GENERAL NOTES  
i. Unique fields are not editable.
ii. Only sales / works Turnover shall be considered as annual Turnover. Other income shall not be
considered.
iii. The vendor enlistment is an independent activity which has no link with tendering at any NTPC
stations/ SSC/ USSC. During enlistment process, focus will be on selection of competent and capable
vendors. This process shall not be influenced by any specific ongoing tender at any site of NTPC. Once
enlistment is approved and uploaded, the enlisted vendors uploaded will be considered for tendering
for subsequent cases.
iv. For MEG, Basic value of PO shall be taken into account to determine execution capability. For
Contract / Services only the net contract value shall be considered. Any separate re-imbursement /
escalation shall not be considered.
v. NTPC reserves the right to correct the input given by vendor in respect to turnover and PO / WO
execution details based on the documents. Decision of NTPC in regard to any interpretation including
similar work / similar item shall be final and binding.
vi. NTPC reserves the right to cancel the enlistment at any time with prior notice to the enlisted
vendors due to change in QR or Technical specifications or any reason in the interest of NTPC.
Preferably 6 months advance notice shall be given to the enlisted vendors and during that period
fresh enlistment based on the revised QR & Tech specifications may be completed so that
immediately after the cutoff date, procurement can take place based on the newly enlisted vendors.
vii. Vendor is free to seek clarification / interpretation/ scope / similar item etc before submitting the
application for enlistment.
viii. After enlistment, in the event of any change in status / credential, it will be the responsibility of
the enlisted vendor to inform NTPC timely.
ix. The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and Average Annual Turn Over (AATO)
of enlisted vendors shall be Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs). If any vendor does not submit the
required documents so that their Execution Capability exceeds Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs),
such vendor shall not be considered for enlistment even if they meet the Qualifying Requirement
(QR) of that MEG/ CEG.
( In case of any conflict between Standard Terms and Conditions available on www.vdc.ntpc.co.in  
and this document, condition mention in this document will prevail)
Documents I Details available on Home Page for vendor enlistment 
https://vdc. ntpc.co. in/ 
1. STC for Enlistment
2. MEGs details
3. CEGs details.
4. Format-LOU
5. Format-POA
6. Fraud Prevention Policy
7. Banning Policy
8. HELP Document



ANNEXURE-1: LOU Format 
"LETTER OF UNDERTAKING" (LOU) 
(To be executed on non-judicial stamp paper of Rs. 100/-) 
Date: --.--. ----
Subject: Application for Enlistment 
Dear Sir, 
1. I, son/ Daughter/ wife of ----------- residing at
------------------- is authorized and empowered to make proposal for
vendor enlistment on behalf of M/s. ____________ with registered office at
---------------------J a (proprietor ship I partnership I company
registered under company act). Details of (Proprietor/ Partners/ Directors) of the organizations are as
below:-
Name �on/ Daughter, Residential Address Mention Proprietor/ Partner I Director 
Wife of as applicable) 
2. The Power of attorney as applicable issued by the competent authority in my company/ organization,
authorizing me to sign & upload enlistment documents, is attached herewith.
3. I/ We hereby confirm that I will access the designated web site of NTPC for vendor enlistment with computer
generated User ID and given password changed by me. I also confirm that I shall take all possible measures
to prevent any unauthorized access to vendor enlistment portal on behalf of my company.
4. I/ We have read and examined and understood the requirements of NIA, MEG/CEG specific qualifying
requirement etc. I/ We agree to accept all terms and conditions 
and subsequent to which desired
information being furnished as desired in the following forms for Enlistment:-
a. Company Information (KYC)
b. Financial details as per Balance Sheet e.g. Turnover, Profit & Loss, etc
c. MEG/CEG related Qualifying requirement (QR) & QR questionnaire
d. Execution Capability (Highest 3 Nos PO/ Work orders execution details for similar work)
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301


ANNEXURE-11/A 
Undertaking from Independent Statutory Auditor 
(On letter head digitally signed by a person duly authorized to Sign on behalf of the Statutory Auditor) 
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
DATE: 
Subject: Authentication of veracity of documents submitted by M/s ........................................ in 
support of credentials for Enlistment 
Ref: NIA no. I Enlistment Cycle no: ...................... . 
Name of the MEG/ CEG: ............................................ . 
Dear Sir, 
M/s .. ........................... ......................................... (hereinafter called Applicant) having Registered office at 
................................................................................ intend to participate in above referred Enlistment of NTPC Ltd. 
We, M/s .............................................................. has been appointed as Statutory Auditor for the Applicant i.e. M/s 
................ ...................... .................. .. (Relevant documents on our appointment along with ADT form-1 attached). 
The Enlistment condition stipulates that the Applicant shall submit supporting Documents pertaining to 
Technical Qualifying Requirement duly verified and certified by Statutory Auditor. 
In this regard, it is hereby confirmed that we have examined the following documents, which are also 
attached with this letter. The same has been verified from the Original Documents and/ or Client for 
authenticity (Strike off, whichever is not applicable). 
We hereby confirm that the following documents are found to be genuine and authentic. 
1. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ............ ... ..... .. (name of Documents) 
2. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
3 .. ............. . 
All the aforesaid documents have been digitally signed by us using official DSC (Digital Signature Certificate) 
as a certificate of authenticity. 
*Further, we have examined the books of accounts, records, and other relevant documents, along with other
necessary information and explanations furnished by M/s .. ......................................................... .
(Applicant) .......... and hereby certify following: .................................................... . 
This certificate is issued at the request of M/s ................... (Applicant) for the purpose of participating in Enlistment. 
Thanking you, 
• Strike off, whichever is not applicable.
ANNEXURE-1118 
Undertaking from Third Party Inspection Agency 
(on letter head digitally signed by a person duly authorized to Sign on behalf of the TPIA) 
Dear Sir, 
DATE: 
Subject: Authentication of veracity of documents submitted by M/s.................................. ....... in 
support of credentials for Enlistment 
Ref: NIA no. I Enlistment Cycle no: ...................... . 
Name of the MEG/ CEG: ............ ................................ . 
M/s .. ............... .................................................. .... (hereinafter calied Applicant) having Registered office at 
................................................................................ intend to participate in above referred Enlistment of NTPC Ltd . 
The Enlistment condition stipulates that the Applicant shall submit supporting Documents pertaining to Technical 
Qualifying Requirement duly verified and certified by a specified independent Third Party Inspection Agency as per 
the list mentioned in the Enlistment documents. 
In this regard, it is hereby confirmed that we have examined the following documents, which are also attached 
with this letter. The same has been verified from the Original Documents and/ or Client for authenticity (Strike 
off, whichever is not applicable). 
We hereby confirm that the following documents are found to be genuine and authentic. 
1. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
2. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
3 .. ............. . 
All the aforesaid documents have been digitally signed by us using official DSC (Digital Signature Certificate) as a 
certificate of authenticity. 
We further confirm that we neither have any vested interest in aforesaid Enlistment nor have any conflict of 
interest in respect of above Enlistment. 
This certificate is issued at the request of M/s ..................................................................................................... (Applicant) 
for the purpose of participating in the subject Enlistment(s). 
Thanking you, 
• Strike off, whichever is not applicable.
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
ANNEXURE-IV 
Undertaking regarding GeM Registration and participation in NTPC Ltd Tenders 
(To be submitted on letter head of Company/ Firm) 
Date: ---/ ... ./ .... 
Sub: Undertaking regarding GeM Registration and participation in NTPC Ltd Tenders 
1. I/We M/s .................... (Name of Vendor Applicant) ......... , Vendor (Applicant) ID: ............. , 
PAN (Vendor), hereby undertake the following (select a orb, whichever is applicable): 
a. I/We hereby confirm that we already have GeM Registration for participation against
NTPC Limited Tenders and our GeM Registrations No. is as follows:
GeM Registration No ........................... .................. ........... . 
b. Presently, I/We do not have a GeM Registration. However, I/We undertake that I/We will
promptly get GeM Registration done for participation against NTPC Ltd Tenders.
2. I/We also undertake that in the event of being an enlisted vendor, I/We will participate
in Tenders of respective Enlistment Group(s) invited by NTPC Limited. Further, in case of
non-participation, I/We shall be liable for action against our enlistment(s) as per extant
provisions of Standard Terms and Conditions of Enlistment.
(Signature of Authorised Signatory as per Power of Attorney) 
Name of Signatory: 
Designation: 
Email: 
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
Letter of Undertaking against Technical Criteria 2.1 of Qualifying Requirements 
 
 
I ----------------------------------- (name) -----------------------------, S/O --------------------------- (CEO /Director 
/Managing Partner) and authorized signatory of ----------------------------------------------- (Name & Address 
of the company) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- do hereby undertake for and 
on behalf of the Company that the works completed by us as given below needs to be considered for 
the evaluation in meeting the Technical Criteria (2.1 of Qualifying Requirements)  
 
 Assignment -1 Assignment -2 Assignment -3 
Name of the 
Assignment    
Client Name    
Date of LOA    
Actual Completion 
Date    
Further to the above, these assignments contain the following studies as evidence of completion of 
one (1) power system study assignment. 
Load Flow Analysis Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Short Circuit Analysis Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Motor Starting Studies Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Harmonic Analysis Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Relay Coordination Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Demand Side 
Management Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Reactive Power 
Compensation Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Insulation 
Coordination Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
Protection/ Relay 
Coordination Studies Yes/No Yes/No Yes/No 
(The above format may be used for addition of more number of assignments)  
 
 
Signature 
For and on behalf of (Company name) 
(CEO/Director /Managing Partner) 
 
(Seal) 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
(The above format may be used for addition of more number of assignments)  
 
 
Letter of Undertaking for the usage of valid licensed software 
 
 
I ----------------------------------- (name) -----------------------------, S/O --------------------------- (CEO /Director 
/Managing Partner /Authorized representative) of ----------------------------------------------- (Name & 
Address of the company) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- do hereby 
undertake for and on behalf of the Company that we have the valid license certificate(s) for the 
following software as per the details below. Further, we will ensure the validity of the following 
software till the tenure of empanelment period  and use only authorized valid licensed software for 
power system studies during the execution of the assignments. 
 
Name of the Software License Validity Type of License Remarks 
DigSILENT Power 
Factory (version 2024 
or above) 
   
ETAP (Version 22.5 or 
above)    
EMTP (version  4.2 or 
above)    
PSCAD (version 5.02 
or above)    
PSS®E (version 35.6 
or above)    
PSS®E (version 35.6 
or above) with  
eigenvalue analysis 
modules 
   
Any other software    
 
 
 
 
Signature 
For and on behalf of (Company name) 
(CEO/Director /Managing Partner/ Authorized representative) 
 
(Seal) 
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Team Composition for Key Experts MEETING THE STIPULATED QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENT AS PER CLAUSE NO. 1.0 of QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
(atleast 1 Senior expert and 5 Technical Experts details to be provided) 
 
Sl. 
No. Category Name Designation   CV provided* 
1 Senior Expert   Yes 
2 Technical 
Expert   Yes 
3 Technical 
Expert   Yes 
4 Technical 
Expert   Yes 
5 Technical 
Expert   Yes 
6 Technical 
Expert   Yes 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
*The detailed CV shall be provided as per format attached as Form-I for all the above experts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(CEO/Director/Managing Partner) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Form-I 
 
 
BRIEF CVs OF KEY PERSONNEL  
 
 
 
 
Name :  
Date of Birth :  
Educational Qualifications 
(Including stream details) :  
Total experience in Number of years in the 
area of power system studies :  
Years with the organization applying for 
empanelment :  
Experience (Last10years) 
(List of positions  held, giving  
dates/Duration, names of  organizations, 
and brief responsibilities) * 
:  
 
*Details may be provided indicating the title of assignment, client name, location & scope of 
work in not more than two lines each. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(CEO/Director/Managing Partner) 
 