DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900324511 SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE
1o f4
NTPC Limited
(A Government of India Enterprise)
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)
FOR
Construction of Balance Boundary Wall for 280 acre Land at Village lara at  NTPC Lara 
LOCATED AT
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Village - Chhapora,
PO/PS – Pussore, 
Raigarh-496440, Chhattisgarh.
(Domestic Competitive Bidding)
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:  9900324511 Date: .0.2026
1.0 NTPC Limited invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned hereinafter.
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK
" Construction of Balance Boundary Wall for 280 acre Land at Village lara at  NTPC 
Lara"
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents.
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through a Mix of Debt and Equity .
4.0 Detailed specification, scope o f work and terms & conditions ar e given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at Government e- procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule:
Issuance of IFB .0.2026
Documents Download Date and Time From .0.2026
Last Date of receipt of queries from 
prospective bidders
.05.2026
Pre-Bid Conference date & time Not Applicable 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price) 
Up to 1500 hrs (IST) on .0.2026
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & 
Time
.0.2026 at 1500 hrs (IST)
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900324511 SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE
2o f4
Techno- Commercial Bid.
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Not Applicable
BENEFITS to Micro & Small Enterprises in 
Award
Being Civil works contract MSE benefit is 
not applicable
Evaluation Criterion Lumpsum on percentage quotation basis 
Splitting: not allowed
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any.
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by th e Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre- Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above.
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 20,00,000/-(Indian 
Rupees Twenty Lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPA RATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E- BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-
BG/PROOF OF E- PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders:
The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as s tipulated at 
Annexure-1 to IFB.
7.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such ass essment in the overall 
interest of the Employer.
8.0       NTPC reserves the right to impose additional performance security wherever required, at its 
discretion to safeguard the Company's interests for contract execution.
9.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/wit hdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bid der / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action.
10.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any in terested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited  under e- tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves on the website https://eprocur entpc.nic.in/ using the 
option “online Bidder Enrolment”.  The said website also has the  detailed guidelines on 
enrolment and participation in the bidding process including Bi dder Manual for online fee 
payment.
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900324511 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
3 of 4 
 
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
11.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revis ions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
             
12.0    Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specif ied Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country whic h shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder i s registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to  bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which t he Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of Indi a is engaged in 
development projects. 
  
13.0   Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder sh all not construe that such Bi dder is 
considered to be qualified. 
 
14.0    Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
15.0 Address for Communication: 
DGM (CS) / AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA   
Pin - 201 301 
 
Tel. No.: 0120 4946581, 4946535  
E-mail: kailashkumawat@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or  
www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or  
www.ntpc.co.in 
 
16.0    Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900324511 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
4 of 4 
 
 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
 ANNEXURE-I to IFB  
Qualifying Requirements (QR) for “Construction of balance Boundary Wall for 280 
acre Land at Village Lara -NTPC Lara ” . 
 
1.1 Technical Criteria: 
1.1 The bidder should have executed ‘work of building construction (Residential / Non- 
residential / Industrial / Commercial) and/or Boundary Wall which should include Masonry 
Works and/or Concrete work ’ within preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of 
Techno-commercial bid opening, meeting the following criteria:   
 
      a) Single order having executed value of above work not less than INR 8.43 Crore 
or 
   b) Two orders having executed value of above works not less than INR 5.27 Crore each 
or 
     c) Three orders having executed value of above works not less than INR 4.22 Crore each 
 
NOTES FOR 1.0.0: 
 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder shoul d have achieved 
the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is sta rted earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
 
2.  In case of order(s) under execution, the value of work exec uted prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by Project Authority shall be considered 
acceptable. 
 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor ma y also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor i s duly certified by 
Project Authority, specifying the scope of work executed by the  sub-contractor in 
support of qualifying requirements. Project Authority means the  owner of the project 
with whom the main contractor is engaged. 
 
4. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint  Venture /Consortium / 
Associate can also be considered provided: 
 
A .     T h e  a l l o c a t i o n  o f  s c o p e  o f  work between the partners of t he joint Venture /  
consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint  venture agreement / 
consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the bidder's scope of work and 
break-up of quantities executed by them as individual contribution in the joint Venture 
/  C o n s o r t i u m  /  A s s o c i a t e ,  d u l y  a u t h e n t i c a t e d  b y  t h e  P r o j e c t  A u thority, meet the 
relevant provisions of eligibility criteria. 
B.    In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated joint 
venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break-up of qua ntities  between the 
partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint ventu re Agreement, then for 
establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria above, t h e  c r e d i t  o f  e x e c u t e d  
quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio of bidder's share in the integrated 
joint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder establishes that it regularly undertakes 
works mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture 
shall be duly authenticated by the Project Authority/owner. 
 
5. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be 
considered.  In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder sho uld provide the breakup 
of basic value and taxes. 
 
6. For evaluation purpose, the Value of reference work, submitt ed by the bidder for 
consideration, shall be escalated each year @5% on pro-rata bas is from the date of 
completion of reference work till the date of Techno-commercial Bid opening.  
 
1.2 Financial Criteria: 
1.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, in the precedi ng three (3) financial 
years as on the  date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
INR 10.54 Crore (Ten Crore Fifty Four Lakhs Only) . 
 
In case the bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover  criteria stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet  the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more 
than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company.  In such an event, the bidder 
would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial b id, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pl edging unconditional 
and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the contract by the bidder in case 
of award. 
 
1.2.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (Hundred percent) of the  bidder’s paid up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year.  
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such 
a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary( ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combi ned manner 
should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total p aid up share capital. 
However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 7 5% (seventy five 
percent) of their respective paid-up share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100  
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be l ess than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
 
1.2.3    In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents 
for substantiation of its qualification. 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unco nsolidated financial statements  of the bidder 
along with copies of the Audited  consolidated financial stateme n t s  o f  i t s  H o l d i n g  
Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as  per the format 
enclosed in the bidding document s, stating that the unaudited u nconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Repor t of the company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of 
techno  
commercial bid opening are not available, certification of financial statements from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder 
is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecut ive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evalu ating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the C EO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the finan cial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying  t h e  f i n a n c i a l  
parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 1.2:  
 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital a nd free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of th e assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted o r written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
3. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascrib ed to 
them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 