 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED 
(A Subsidiary of NTPC Limited) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
HYDROGEN REFUELING STATION FOR GREEN 
HYDROGEN MOBILITY PROJECT AT KANDLA, GUJARAT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
FOR 
 
HYDROGEN REFUELING STATION FOR GREEN HYDROGEN MOBILITY 
PROJECT AT KANDLA, GUJARAT 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
 
IFB No.: NGEL-CS-H2-GUJARAT-001(R)                                                 Date: 01.05.2026                                                                               
 
 
Tender Id: 2026_NGEL_107755 
 
Bidding Document No. NGEL-CS-H2-GUJARAT-001(R) 
 
 
1.0 NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED (NGEL)  invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single 
Stage Two Envelope (i.e. Envelope -I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid) for 
HYDROGEN REFUELING STATION FOR GREEN HYDROGEN MOBILITY PROJECT AT 
KANDLA, GUJARAT 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The brief scope of work inter alia includes: 
 
(I) The Bidder shall be responsible for the Design, engineering, supply, construction, erection, 
testing, commissioning of the hydrogen fuelling station, including civil and architectural works 
with 10 years of operation and maintenance (O&M) works of all systems on turnkey basis. 
(II)   The equipment’s / systems / documentation as below, are in the scope of bidder: 
a. Integrating with an Electrolyser system of 210 kg H2/day. (Electrolyser system shall be        
provided by the owner and capacity mentioned for generation in solar hours) 
b. Hydrogen compression system to compress the hydrogen to a pressure of 500 bar of  rated 
capacity of 20 kg/hr. 
c. Hydrogen storage facility to store 540 kg at 500 bar in H2 cylinders cascades. 
d. Hydrogen Dispenser system to fill requisite hydrogen for 11 nos of FCEVs at 350 bar. 
e. Nitrogen Generation System of 10 Nm3/hr to provide purging inert gas into hydrogen 
    system during normal and emergency operation. 
f. Fire suppression system in H2 areas and control buildings. 
g. Complete civil and electrical works with integration of HT System, H2 generation, 
 
      compression, storage and dispenser system and BESS including office cum switchgear 
       building. 
h.    Unified Integrated Control System (ICS) incl. SCADA and EMS for the control and 
       monitoring of the entire plant. 
i.    Conducting safety studies of Hazard and Operability (HAZOP), Safety Integrity Level         
(SIL), Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA), Quantitative Risk Assessment         
(QRA), Hazardous area classification (HAC), Escape Muster and Emergency Response         
Analysis (EMERA), Disaster Management Plan (DMP). 
 
The detailed scope of work is as defined in the bidding document No.: NGEL-CS-H2-
GUJARAT-001(R) 
 
3.0 Detailed specification, Scope of work and Terms & Conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available for examination and downloading at e-tender portal (as specified 
in this notice) and as per the following schedule: 
GePNIC Portal Tender Ref. No./Tender Id NGEL-CS-H2-GUJARAT-001(R) / 
2026_NGEL_107755 
IFB Date 01.05.2026 
Last Date for receipt of queries from prospective 
Bidders 11.05.2026 
Last date and time for receipt of bids comprising 
both Techno-Commercial Bid and Price Bids bid 21.05.2026 15:00:00 (IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-Commercial 
Bid 22.05.2026 16:00:00 (IST) 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference as specified above. 
 
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 1,00,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees One Crore only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECT ED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON 
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS 
SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE 
PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE. 
 
(Bidders who are unable to send the Original Bank Guarantee in physical form at the tender 
opening location, may adopt procedure given in Bidding documents) 
 
4.1 Class-I and Class-II local suppliers only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of 
the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
5.0 Qualification Requirements for Bidders (QR) 
 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in clause 1.0 and clause 2.0 
as below: 
1.0     TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
 
  
1.1   Route-1: 
 
 The Bidder should have designed/got designed, supplied, erected/supervised erection and 
commissioned/supervised commissioning of a Hydrogen Refueling Station (HRS) comprising 
compression, storage and dispensing of hydrogen at minimum 350 bar and obtained license 
for operation of the station from statutory authorities of concerned countries where the 
refueling station is located. The HRS should have been in successful operation for at least one 
(1) month prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
 
1.2   Route-2: 
 
The Bidder should have executed project(s) as Engineering, Procurement, and Construction 
(EPC) Contractor with single point responsibility for Hydrogen Generation Plant/ Refinery/ 
Petrochemical/ Onshore Oil & Gas processing facilities/ Offshore Oil & Gas p rocessing 
facilities/ Chemical/ Fertilizer/ Power/ Metallurgy/ any other Process Industry for an average 
daily hydrogen capacity handling of atleast 0.5 TPH. The station should have been in 
successful operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date o f Techno-Commercial bid 
opening. 
OR 
 
1.3    Route-3: 
 
(a) The Bidder should have designed/got designed, supplied, erected/supervised erection and 
commissioned/supervised commissioning of a CNG Refueling Station (CRS) comprising 
compression, storage and dispensing of compressed natural gas and obtained a PESO 
license for operation of the station. The CRS should have been in successful operation for 
at least one (1) year prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening.  
 
AND 
 
(b) The Bidder should have executed hydrogen system of atleast 20Nm3/day consisting of 
generation/hydrogen compression/ storage.  
OR 
 
1.4   Route-4: 
 
The Bidder should be a developer or EPC contractor having previous experience of working 
as a developer or EPC contractor in the energy sector with execution of packages under a 
single contract in last ten (10) years of financial value not less than ₹47 Cr . (Indian Rupees 
Forty Seven Crores only) and the same should have been in successful operation for at least 
one (1) year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. The Bidder participating in 
this route should collaborate/associate with an agency meeting any of the Routes - 1 or 2 or 
3 above. The Bidder shall furnish a Letter of Undertaking from the above Collaborator/ 
Associate for the performance of the contract, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents. The Letter of Undertaking shall be submitted along with the techno-commercial 
bid, failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected.  
 
NOTES: 
 
(i) For Route 1 and 2 the bidder should have executed the job in a single contract within the 
preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of the Techno-Commercial bid opening. For Route 
3, the requirements specified at 1.3 (a) & 1.3 (b) can be executed in two separate contracts. 
A work completion certificate(s) from the client/ owner specifying the details of the project 
scope is to be submitted along with a license certificate (as applicable) from the local 
regulatory agency allowing the operation of the proje ct. For the case of India the license 
certificate will be from PESO. 
(ii)     For all routes, a certificate from the client/owner of the plant shall also be furnished by the 
Bidder for the successful operation of the reference plant. 
(iii)     Projects executed by Bidder’s Holding Company shall also be considered as Bidder’s 
experience meeting the QR. In such a case, bidder shall submit a letter of support from their 
Holding Company for successful performance of the contract valid up to the end of defect 
liability period of the contract, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents. The 
Letter of support shall be submitted along with techno -commercial bid, failing which the 
Bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected. 
(iv)    In case the award for the reference works has been received by the Bidder either directly 
from the owner of the plant or any other intermediary organization, a certificate from such 
owner of the plant or the intermediary organization shall be required t o be furnished by the 
Bidder. 
(v)    The Bidder shall be registered in India under the Companies Act 2013 as on the date of 
the techno-commercial bid opening. 
(vi)     For Route 4, the value of executed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them 
at current price level by adding 5% for each completed year (total number of days/365) after 
the end date of commissioning of the reference work, till the last day  of month previous to 
one in which NIT has been invited. No weightage will be given for a period of less than one 
year. The specified value of executed works is excluding any taxes and duties. 
(vii) Energy sector means all industries involved in the production and sale of energy i.e. oil and 
gas, power plants etc. 
 
2.0    FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
 
2.1       Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
2.1.1   The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 59.00 Crores (Indian    
Rupees Fifty-Nine crores only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
 
In case the bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria stipulated above on 
its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements 
as above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company as on the  last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional 
and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of 
award. 
 
2.1.2   The Net Worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of the 
Bidder’s paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the 
Bidder does not satisfy the Net worth criteria on its own, it can m eet the requirement of Net 
 
Worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding Company wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net 
Worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(i es) 
of the Holding company, in a combined manner should not be less than 100% (one hundred 
percent) of their total paid-up share capital. However, individually, their Net Worth should not 
be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid-up share capital. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% where X1, X2, X3 are individual 
Net Worth which should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of the respective paid -
up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
 
2.1.3  In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on a standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following  documents for 
substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies 
of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
(b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the un-audited unconsolidated financial statements form part 
of the Consolidated Annual Report of the Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of opening 
of the Techno-commercial bid are not available, certification of financial statements from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not 
able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating  the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date 
of Techno -commercial bid opening and t he Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
2.2   Financial Criteria for the Collaborator(s)/ Associate(s) 
2.2.1   The average annual turnover of the Collaborator / Associate, in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 
6.00 Crores (Indian    Rupees Six crores only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
 
In case the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) does not satisfy the average annual turnover 
criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the 
stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that the net worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than 
the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Collaborator(s) / 
Associate(s) would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of 
 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Collaborator(s) / 
Associate(s) in case of award. 
 
2.2.2   The Net Worth of the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) should not be less than 100% (one 
hundred percent) of the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) ’s paid share capital as on the last day 
of the preceding financial year. In case the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) does not satisfy the 
Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength 
of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding Company 
wherever applicable. In such a case, howev er the Net Worth of the Collaborator(s) / 
Associate(s) and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the 
Holding company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (one hundred percent) 
of their total paid-up share capital. However, individually, their Net Worth should not be less 
than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid-up share capital. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% where X1, X2, X3 are individual 
Net Worth which should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of the respective paid -
up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
 
2.2.3 In case the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) is not able to furnish its audited financial statements 
on a standalone entity basis, the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) can be considered acceptable pro vided the Collaborator(s) / 
Associate(s) further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator(s) / 
Associate(s) along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
 
(b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part 
of the Consolidated Annual Report of the Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of opening 
of the Techno-commercial bid are not available, certification of financial statements from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable.  In case, the 
Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) is unable to submit the Certificate from a practising Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial year shall be  considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company 
are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening and the Certificate from 
the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
NOTES: 
(i) Net Worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include 
 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of assets, write back of depreciation provisions and 
amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of the Profit & Loss account and miscellaneous 
expenses to the extent not adjusted or written oﬀ, if any, shall be reduce d from Reserves & 
Surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act 2013. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days 
prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
6.0 NGEL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ intending bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
 
7.0 Interested parties are required to get registered with GePNIC website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) (if not already registered). The bidding document is available online. 
A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the 
NTPC e-tendering portal website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in (GePNIC Portal). 
 
 
7.1 Issuance of Bid Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered 
to be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online. Bidder shall furnish Bid Security and Power 
of Attorney separately offline as detailed in Bidding Documents before the stipulated bid 
submission closing date and time at the address given below. 
 
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
 
8.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents downloaded by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
Addl. General Manager (CS)  
Contracts Services  
NTPC Green Energy Limited 4th Floor, NETRA Building E -3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater 
Noida Gautam Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
Telephone No. 0120-2356601, 9424140768 
E-Mail: nabintripathi@ntpc.co.in / vishaljain@ntpc.co.in 
 
Corporate Identification Number: U40100DL2022GOI396282, Website: www.ngel.in 