                                            NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
PLC System replacement, installation and commissioning in CHP Stage-IV Stacker Reclaimer- 5 & 6 at 
NTPC VSTPS 
Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900324048 
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope of work comprises of PLC System replacement, installation and commissioning in CHP Stage-IV 
Stacker Reclaimer- 5 & 6 at NTPC VSTPS. The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, 
erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, 
transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection including associated 
civil and structural works if any. 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per 
the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per etender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per etender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per etender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per etender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per etender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 2,00,000/-  
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt 
of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. Option for Online 
payment of tender fee is also made available at GepNIC/e tender portal. Bidders are requested to please avail the 
facility. 
For details please refer Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
 
 
 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD through BG/ST or EMD Exemption Allowed” Tab is enabled only for the purpose of 
allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of the bank Guarantee. Bidders are advised NOT to upload 
MSE/other document for availing exemption.  
EMD Payment is not exempted in this tender. Bids without EMD/Bid Security, as per tender provisions, shall 
be outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of tender fee is to be done only 
through online facility on GePNIC portal. Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through online payment of bid security 
amount applicable for this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the tender 
provisions. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank guarantee and also ensure 
that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the address mentioned above before the submission 
deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, failing which bid is 
liable for rejection 
 
a) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Securit y: The Bidder shall furnish, a s a part of his Bid an Earnest 
Money Deposit of amount ₹2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakhs only) 
 
b) Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/Performance Security is to be submitted as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee towards Bid 
Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG should only be as per Form-1 specified vide Sec VIII Book 3 of 3 
and EMD BG submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard Format shall be rejected for which NTPC shall 
not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed envelope shall be rejected by the 
Employer as being non-responsive.  
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the stipulated bid submission 
closing date and time at the address given below.  
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security and integrity pact(if applicable) shall be rejected by the 
employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted through electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, Bidder to submit the 
proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
6.0 Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. 
Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated hereunder: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1   Technical Criteria: 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated 
hereunder: 
 
1.1  The bidder should be a ‘manufacturer’ or ‘Authorized deale r of manufacturer’ of ‘DCS’ / ‘PLC 
system’. 
 
  A N D  
1.1.2   The bidder should have executed the work of supply, installation and commissioning of at least one 
(1) ‘DCS’ / ‘PLC system’ of quoted make, which should have been  in operation for a minimum 
duration of one (01) year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
AND  
 
1.1.3 The Bidder should have executed orders for supply, installation and commissioning of DCS / PLC 
system within preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, in 
any of the following manner: 
 
1. One (1) order having executed value not less than Rs. 82 Lakh 
                                                    OR 
2. Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 51 Lakh each 
                                                              OR 
3. Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 41 Lakh each 
 
                         Note:  
 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria specified 
above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed / closed. 
 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of Techno- Commercial bid 
opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided the 
certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the scope of work executed by 
the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
 
4. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be considered. In case 
of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break –up of basic value and taxes. 
 
5. In case, bidder has executed reference work unde r two orders one for supply and one for services 
separately for the same installation, combined value of both the orders shall be considered as a single 
order for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
6. The bidder must submit Latest annual report/ NSIC / SSI / MS ME registration certificate / BIS 
license / ISO certificate / any other statutory document as a p roof of being manufacturer as per 
QR. 
 
7. Authorized dealer should be specifically authorized by the M anufacturer for participating in this 
bid. 
 
7.2     Financial criteria: 
 
7.2.1   The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on 
the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening should not be less than Rs. 102 Lakh (Rupees One Crore 
Two lakhs only). 
 
7.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. 7.2.1 above on its own, its holding 
company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. 7.2.1 above, provided that 
the net worth of such holding company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to 
or more than the paid-up share capital of the holding company. In such an event, the bidder would be 
required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the holding 
company, supported by Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the bidder in case of 
award. 
 
7.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity basis, the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the 
bidder furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of its qualification. 
 
 Copies of the unaudited9 unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of the 
audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.  
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents stating that the unaudited unconsol idated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated annual report of the company. 
 7.2.4 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial Bid Opening 
are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant  
certifying its  financial  parameters,  the  audited  results of three consecutive financial  years  preceding  
the  last  financial  year  shall  be  considered  for  evaluating  the  financial parameters.  
 
 Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date  of  Techno-
Commercial  Bid  Opening  and  the  Certificate  from  the  practicing  Chartered Accountant certifying the 
financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for the Clause 7.2: 
  
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
2. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies 
Act of India, in vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all reserves 
credited out of the profits and share premium account, but does not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of 
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be 
reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
8.0 ‘Class-I local suppliers’- are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier (Minimum Local Content equal to 
or more than 50%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form.  By accepting the MLC provision of GTE 
it will be considered that:- 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in Annexure-II to BDS.  
 
Also supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violation of ‘Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII Order) dated 15.06.2017 and its 
subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade 
(DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration and will be dealt in 
line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, will be 
eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with 
the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply  to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a land 
border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India 
is engaged in development projects 
 
10.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT without assigning 
any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
11.0 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be qualified. Bids shall 
be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose 
to attend the bid opening.  
 
12.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
 
13.0 Address for communication: 
 
Sr. Manager/AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chattisgarh - 492018  
Email: harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in / amitksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515293 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
14.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 30-Apr-2026 04:45 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference
Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900324048
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_107715_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online
Bankers
S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf EMD Fee
Details
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Attachment 3
QR
documents
Technical Bid
.pdf
Other
Attachments
of Technical
Bid
.pdf
Last Three
Financial
Years Balance
sheets
3 Finance .xls Price Bid BOQ
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title PLC System replacement installation and commissioning in VSTPS CHP Stage IV
Work Description As per BId doc
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 180 
Location Western Region Head
QuartersII Plot No. -87,
Secto
Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 

Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region
Head QuartersII
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 30-Apr-2026 05:00 PM Bid Opening Date 20-May-2026 05:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
01-May-2026 09:00 AM Document Download / Sale End
Date
18-May-2026 05:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 01-May-2026 09:00 AM Clarification End Date 06-May-2026 09:00 AM 
Bid Submission Start Date 06-May-2026 09:00 AM Bid Submission End Date 18-May-2026 05:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 133.61
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tender Documents BidDoc.rar Bid Document 15736.23
2 BOQ BOQ_110948.xls BOQ 313.00
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Description Expected
Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the
LOCAL CONTENT included in the PACKAGE FOR
COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM
LOCAL CONTENT requirements of the Tender.
MLC Declaration for Services Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC FRAUD PREVENTION Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business
Dealing Policy of NTPC BANNING POLICY DECLARATION Yes Yes
5.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per
tender documents on Restrictions on procurement
from a Bidder of a country which shares a land
border with India
LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying
Requirements QR COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid
documents NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATION Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in Harsh Mamodia Harsh Mamodia
2. vkbhojwani@ntpc.co.in Vikas Kumar Bhojwani Vikas Kumar Bhojwani
3. ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in AJAY SHIVHARE AJAY KUMAR SHIVHARE
4. srikark@ntpc.co.in J.V.R.Srikar Kale KALE JAYA VENU RAGAVA
SRIKAR
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal
places
2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Agree
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name Harsh
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By Harsh Mamodia
Designation Sr. Manager
Created Date 30-Apr-2026 04:18 PM
 