Qualifying Requirement (QR) for Vendor Enlistment for 
“Mega Contract for Coal Handling Plant covering Mechanical 
Maintenance of coal handling plant along with related sub 
systems and auxiliaries”. (CATEGORY-2) 
 
 
A) CEG DETAILS 
 
1.0 CEG NO.    CHP-99A 
2.0 CEG DESCRIPTION  
Mega Contract for Coal Handling Plant 
covering ‘Mechanical Maintenance of coal 
handling plant along with related sub systems 
and auxiliaries. 
3.0 RESPONISBILITY 
CENTRE    CPG-1/VDC 
 
B) 
 
Technical Criteria of QR: 
 
The applicant should have executed Mechanical Maintenance works 
(inclusive of conveyor belt jointing work) in a Coal Handling Plant of a 
Thermal Power Station of minimum 500MW capacity for a minimum 
continuous period of one year in a maximum of two Contracts/Purchase 
Orders, during last five years from the date of application. 
 
 
C) 
 
 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated 
Qualifying Requirements as stated at B) above: 
 
Notes 
 
1. The word commissioned/ executed means that the applicant should have 
executed the work within preceding 05 (five) years prior to the date of 
application even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
 
2. Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-contractor may also 
be considered provided that the certificate issued by the main contractor 
is duly certified by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the 
sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
 
 
 D) 
 
FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
 
1. The Net Worth of the applicant shall not be less than 100% of the applicant’s 
paid up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case 
the Applicant meets the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its holding 
companies wherever applicable, the Net Worth of the Applicant and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total 
paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less 
than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
of their respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid 
up share capitals 
 
2. In case the applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements 
on stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the applicant can be considered acceptable provided the 
applicant further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification. 
 
A. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
applicant along with copies of the Audited consolidated financial 
statements of its Holding Company. 
 
   B.  A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual 
Report of the company. 
 
 
3. In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on 
the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial 
results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial 
year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are 
under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
 
Notes for Financial criteria: 
 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
3. Net worth means the sum of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the 
extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
 
E) 
 
Special Terms & Conditions: 
 
Please refer “Special Terms & Conditions of enlistment” available at VDC  
portal 
https://vendor.ntpc.co.in/Standard-Terms-and-Conditions 
 
F) Category of Enlistment: 
 
CATEGORY-2 
 
G) 
 
Brief Scope of Work 
 
1. Conveyor belt (NN/EP/Steel Chord) laying, jointing (both cold and Hot 
Vulcanizing), Belt Patching, belt mapping and Pulley lagging. 
2. Preventive Maintenance, Breakdown Maintenance and Overhauling works of 
various equipment of coal handling plants like conveyor system, Paddle 
Feeders, Vibrating Feeder, Crushers, Belt Feeder, Stacker Reclaimer, Wagon 
Tippler, Side Arm Charger, Apron Feeder, Traveling Tripper etc. 
3. Operation and Preventive & Breakdown Maintenance of Heavy Earth Moving/ 
Mobile equipment’s of CHP such as Dozer/ Loader/ Hydra etc. 
4. Preventive & Breakdown Maintenance of EOT Cranes & Hoist installed in CHP 
area. 
5. Steel Structural Fabrication and Erection work like Chute, liner, deck plate, 
seal plate, conveyor support structure, ventilation ducts, staircase, 
bunker/Track hopper grills, Working platforms, Handrails and other safety 
related steel structure.  
6. Preventive & Breakdown Main tenance of Dust Extraction and Dust 
Suppression system. 
7. Preventive & Breakdown Maintenance of Cooling/Service Water system and 
Fire Protection system (Hydrant, deluge & associated valves) including pumps 
and pipelines of CHP. 
 