NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1      CEG  No.  AHD -01  
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Maintenance Contract for Ash Disposal Pipeline s, Ash Water Recirculation 
Pipelines and Ash Dyke Sprinkling System including Erection / Replacement 
of Ash Disposal Pipelines   
3 Responsibility Centre  ERHQ -II  
4 Brief scope of work  The scope includes the following  
a)  Rotation / Replacement / Erection of new Pipe lines  (MS Pipes / Cast 
Basalt Pipes) of Ash Disposal System. 
b)  Localized patching of Pipelines to arrest leaks, Re moval / Laying of 
Pipelines in Sprinkler System / Ash Disposal System  / Ash Water 
Recirculation Line.  
c)  Shifting of Pipe lines from NTPC Stores to Site & vice-versa.  
d)  Arrangement of Hydra for material handling, Diesel Generator Set for 
welding shall be in the scope of the agency.  
e)  Watch and ward for ash disposal pipe lines shall be in the scope of the 
agency. 
Other details shall be given in subsequent tender document. 
5 Technical  Qualifying 
requirements 
The Applicant must have executed the maintenance wo rk of Ash Disposal 
Pipelines of 250 NB or higher size including replac ement of minimum 
length of 2 Kilometre in a single work order during  last five year from the 
date of application.  
                                       OR 
The Applicant must have executed the erection work of Ash Disposal 
Pipelines of 250 NB or higher size for a minimum le ngth of 2 Kilometres in 
a single work order during last five year from the date of application.  
 
Note :  
Execution of following jobs in isolation shall not be treated as credential 
for the subject works: 
 
(i)  Execution of Structural Fabrication only  
(ii)  Civil Pedestal jobs for laying of ash pipe lines only 
(iii)  Pipe line rotation job only. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support of 
meeting QR 
Relevant PO copy and Client’s Completion Certificat e/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement. 
 
NTPC LTD  
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, EOC, NOIDA  
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE  ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
           CEG  No.  AHD -01  
6 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of  meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
i.  Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values o f similar work 
during previous five years from the date of applica tion and Copy of 
Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Sta tement from the 
concerned client in support of successful execution  of work against 
each of the POs to be submitted. 
ii.  Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss state ment for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned f rom the date of 
application. In case, the audited documents are not  ready / available, 
then certified copy of financial statement by a reg istered practicing 
chartered accountant may be submitted. 
iii.  NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate  
iv.  PF and Service Tax registration certificate  
v.  Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to submit.  
7 NOTES:  
 
 
1.0  Similar work means:  
Work of Ash Disposal Pipe Lines (MS/ Cast Basalt) i ncluding 
replacement / erection of ash disposal pipe line of  minimum diameter 
of 250 NB during last five years from the date of application.  
 
2.0  Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value i s composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to  give break-up of 
composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes et c. Any separate 
re-imbursement/ escalation shall also not be considered.  
 
 
 
 
 
 