    QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS  
FOR 
“ENLISTMENT OF AGENCIES FOR ASH DYKE WORKS” 
 
CEG DETAILS   
CEG Description Enlistment of Agencies for Ash Dyke Works 
Responsibility Centre Shared Service Centre Western Region-1 (Kawas) 
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA  
1. TECHNICAL ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR ENLISTMENT OF AGENCIES 
FOR ASH DYKE WORKS OF NTPC THERMAL POWER PROJECTS / 
STATIONS 
 
Applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment shall satisfactorily establish that it 
fulfills the Eligibility requirements stipulated here under: - 
 
1.0.0 Applicant should have executed the following works within the preceding Seven 
(07) years reckoned as on the date of bid opening: 
 
1.1.0 Category-I (for Inward / Upstream raising works): 
 
1.1.1 At least one (01) earthen dam or ash dyke work or reservoir emba nkment work of 
maximum height not less than 4.0 m, in one contract. 
 
And 
 
1.1.2 A cumulative progress of at least 2.5 La kh Cu.M. of earthwork in earthen dam 
work or ash dyke work or reservoir embankment or canal embankment work in 
any one (1) year period, in one (1) or maximum two (2) contracts. 
 
1.2.0 Category-II (For Outward Raising/ Centerline Raising / Buttressing / 
Peripheral filling / Starter Dyke works): 
 
1.2.1 At least one (01) earthen dam work or ash dyke work or reservoir embankment 
work of maximum height not less than 5.5 m, in one contract. 
 
And 
 
1.2.2 A cumulative progress of at least 7.5 La kh Cu.M. of earthwork in earthen dam 
work or ash dyke work or reservoir embankment or canal embankment work in 
any one (1) year period, in one (1) or maximum two (2) contracts. 
 
The fo llowing notes (a to l) explain in detail the intension of various terms in 
eligibility criteria for category I & II above: 
 
a)    Earth dams, ash dykes and reservoir embankments, which are designated as 
water retaining structures, shall be qualified for this work. However, canal 
embankments, guide bunds along water courses shall be considered for 
qualification under clause 1.1.2 / 1.2.2 only. All other types of earth works 
such as road embankments, railway embankments, site leveling works etc. 
shall not be qualified. 
 
b)       Sand / substitute filter media as filter either in chimney or in blanket or both; 
used in embankmen ts shall be considered in earth work quantity calculatio ns. 
Rock Toe shall not be considered. 
 
c)       For embankments/ reservoir / dyke, the he ight and quantities shall be 
considered above formation level up to dyke top for eligibility criteria 
requirement purpose. However, in case of ash dyke raising works for both 
inward/upstream and outward/center line methods, the height of dyke shall be 
considered from the stripped level of ash inside the lagoon for eligibility 
criteria. 
 
"Formation level" means bottom of stripped level for the dyke formation. The 
earth work in Cut Off Trench (COT) shall be included for quantity estimation 
for eligibility cri terion under clause 1.1.2 / 1.2.2. However, the depth of COT 
shall not be considered for the height calculation for eligibility criterion under 
clause 1.1.1/ 1.2.1. 
 
d)       Wherever the ash dykes and other embankments are constructed in different 
contracts, the height applicable to individual contract only and not the 
cumulative effect shall be considered for the purpose of determining 
compliance of clause 1.1.1/1.2.1. For example, where the contract is for raising 
an embankment, only the raising portion shall be considered and not the earlier 
starter dyke. 
 
e)       In clause 1.0.0 above, the word executed means the applicant should have 
achieved the criterion specified in the eligibility criteria requirements within 
preceding Seven (07) year  period even if the  contract has been started earlier 
and / or is not completed / closed. 
 
f)       In clause 1.1.1/1.2.1 above, applicant should have constructed full height of 
embankments w ork specified in the eligibility criteria, within the preceding 
Seven (07) year  period, even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is 
not completed /closed. 
 
g)      The “one (01) year period” means any continuous 12 -months period for both 
one or maximum two contracts.  
 
h)       In case of works stipulated in 1.1.2/1.2.2 above, the word  "earthwork" shall 
mean earth / ash. The quantity of earth work in filling only will be considered 
for qualification. 
 
i)       Reference works executed by the applicant, as a member of joint Venture / 
Consortium / Associate can also be considered provided: 
 
The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures / 
consortium / Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture 
agreement / consortium agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the 
applicant's scope of work and break -up of quantities executed by them as 
individual contribution in the joint Venture / Consortium / Associate, duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority, meet the relevant provisions of 
eligibility criteria. 
 
In case the reference work has been executed by th e applicant in an integrated 
joint venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break -up of quantities 
between the partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture 
Agreement, then for clause 1.1.2/1.2.2. above, the credit of executed qu antities 
can be claimed by the applicant in the ratio of bidder's share in the integrated 
joint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder establishes that it regularly 
undertakes works as at clause 1.1.2/1.2. 2 above . The executed works/ 
quantities by the inte grated joint venture shall be duly authenticated by the 
Project Authority. However, the applicant will not be eligible to claim the 
credit of executed work by integrated Joint Venture for clause 1.1.1/ 1.2.1 
above, unless the applicant has individually exe cuted the work meeting the 
requirement of Clause 1.1.1/1.2.1 above and which has been duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority. 
 
j)       Reference work executed by an applicant as a sub -contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified 
by Project Authority specifying the scope of work executed by the sub -
contractor in support of eligibility criteria. 
 
k)      Similar work means: - Earthen dam work, ash dyke work or reservoir 
embankment work (canal embankmen t work also will be considered for earth 
work under quantity criteria). 
 
l)       All the inward / upstream raising works will be considered under Category-I of 
enlistment. Rest all other works including Outward / Center line / buttressing 
works / Peripheral filling works / Starter Dyke works etc., will be considered 
under Category -II. Applicants enlisted under Category -II will automatically 
get enlisted for Category-I works. 
 
2. FINANCIAL REQUIREMENT 
 
     In addition to above , the Applicants will also be req uired to furnish and upload their 
audited financial statements along with all the annexure in support of following data: 
 
1. Annual Turn Over of last 03 (three) financial years  
2. Net worth of last FY: Net worth of the Applicant in last FY as on the last day o f 
submission of application should not be less than 100% of the Applicant’s paid up 
share capital 
 
  Thus, for financial capability, vendors’ data w.r.o. their annual turnover during 
preceding 03 financial years from the date of application who meets net -worth criteria 
will be captured and shall be maintained as data base against each technically 
qualified vendor in the enlistment master. 
Note:  
1.Net worth of the Applicant in last FY as on the last day of submission of application 
should not be less th an 100% of the Applicant’s paid up share capital. Net worth 
means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not 
include reserves credited out  of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
2. Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover.  
 
In case the Applicant does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at above on its 
own, its holding company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements, provided that the net worth of such holding company as on the last day 
of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share 
capital of the holding company. In such an event, the Applicant would be required to 
furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the holding 
company, supported by Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the Applicant in case of award. 
Net worth of the Applicant as on the last day of the preceding financial year ( as on the 
last day of submission of application ) should not be less than 100% of the Applicant’s 
paid up share capital. In case the Applicant does not satisfy the Net worth criteria on its 
own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of its Holding 
Companies wherever applicable. The net worth of the Applicant and its Subsidiary(ies) 
and or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be l ess than 75% of their respective paid up 
share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the ir 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
            In case the Applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial stateme nts of the Applicant 
can be considered acceptable provided the Applicant further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
➢ Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Applicant 
along with copies of th e audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
 
➢ A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format en-
closed, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the Consolidated Annual Report of the Holding Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered accep table. In case, Applicant is 
not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for eva luating the financial parameters. 
Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under 
audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid openin g and the Certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
 
 
  
 