                                               NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
Establishment of safety control rooms with IP PTZ camera feed at Barrage and Powerhouse sites at 
TVHPP.  
Tender Ref:  NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900323734 
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” from eligible bidders 
for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope of work comprises of Establishment of safety control rooms with IP PTZ camera feed at Barrage 
and Powerhouse sites at TVHPP. The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, erection, 
testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, transportation, 
transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection including associated civil and 
structural works if any.  
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as 
per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per etender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per etender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per etender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per etender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per etender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 2,00,000/-  
Tender Fee Not applicable 
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of 
receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. Option for 
Online payment of tender fee is also made available at GepNIC/e-tender portal. Bidders are requested to please 
avail the facility. 
For details please refer Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD through BG/ST or EMD Exemption Allowed” Tab is enabled only for the 
purpose of allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of the bank Guarantee. Bidders are advised 
NOT to upload MSE/other document for availing exemption.  
Payment of EMD is not exempted in this tender. Bids without adequate Bid Security, as per tender 
provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting the tender fee and bid security is enabled. Payment of tender fee is to be done only 
through online facility on GePNIC portal. Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through online payment of bid 
security amount applicable for this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with 
the tender provisions. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank guarantee and also ensure 
that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the address mentioned above before the 
submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, failing which 
bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: Not applicable 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid an 
Earnest Money Deposit of amount ₹2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh only)  
 
c) Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/Performance Security is to be submitted as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee shall be in accordance with the form of Bank Guarantee towards Bid 
Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG should only be as per Form-1 specified vide Sec VIII Book 3 
of 3 and EMD BG submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard Format shall be rejected for which 
NTPC shall not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed envelope shall be rejected by the 
Employer as being non-responsive.  
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the stipulated bid submission 
closing date and time at the address given below.  
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security and integrity pact (if applicable) shall be rejected by 
the employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted through electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, Bidder to submit 
the proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
 
6.0 Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. 
Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated 
hereunder: 
7.1 Technical Criteria: 
7.1.1 The bidder should have supplied, erected / supervised erection and commissioned / supervised 
commissioning of the combination of IP based camera and Video Management Software/ NVR 
(Network Video Recorder) for CCTV system having installation of minimum Ten (10 ) nos. CCTV 
cameras in a single contract which should have been in operation for at least one year prior to the 
date of Techno commercial bid opening. 
AND 
7.1.2 The Bidder should have executed similar works of order values as mentioned hereunder during the 
preceding seven (7) year as on the date of Techno- commercial bid opening as per the following: 
A. Executed value not less than Rs100 lacs in a Single Contract.  
OR 
B. Executed value not less than Rs 62 lacs each in Two Contracts.  
OR 
C. Executed value not less than Rs 50 lacs each in three Contracts.  
Notes for 7.1: 
1. Similar work means bidder should have executed orders of supply, erection / supervision of erection and 
commissioning / supervision of commissioning of CCTV system. 
2. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria specified 
above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed /closed. 
3. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid 
opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered acceptable. 
4. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided the certificate 
issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor 
in support of qualifying requirements. 
5. In case, bidder has executed reference work under two orders one for supply and  one for services separately 
for the same installation, both the orders shall be considered as a single order for the purpose of evaluation. 
6. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be considered. In case of 
contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break–up of basic value and taxes 
7.2 Financial Criteria: 
7.2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be less than Rs. 125 lacs (Rupees One Hundred 
Twenty Five Lakhs Only) during the preceding three (3) completed financial years as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening.  
7.2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. 1.2.1 above on its own, its Holding 
Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. 1.2.1 above, provided that the 
net worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more 
than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the bidder would be required to furnish 
along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the bidder in case of award.  
 
7.2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity basis, the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the bidder 
further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
• Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of the Audited 
consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
• A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the Consolidated 
Annual Report of the company. 
7.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of Techno-Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the Financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno- Commercial bid opening and the Certificate 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
Notes for 7.2: 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies 
Act of India, in vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all 
reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of 
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or  written off, if any, shall be 
reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
8.0 ‘Class-I local suppliers’-  are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier (Minimum Local Content equal 
to or more than 50%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form.  By accepting the MLC provision 
of GTE it will be considered that: - 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in Annexure-II to BDS.  
 
Also supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violation of ‘Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII Order) dated 15.06.2017 and its 
subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade 
(DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration and will be dealt 
in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, will be 
eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects 
 
10.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT without assigning 
any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such 
action. 
 
11.0 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be qualified. Bids 
shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of Bidder’s representatives 
who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
12.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
 
13.0 Address for communication: 
 
Sr. Manager/AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chattisgarh - 492018  
Email: vkbhojwani@ntpc.co.in / amitksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515308/0771-2515267 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
14.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 