NTPC LTD 
EOC, NOIDA 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Pressure Transmitter 
(Electronic Transmitter for Pressure, Diff Press and DP based Flow / Level Measurements)   
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 94 MEG-01 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Pressure Transmitter (Electronic Transmitter for Pressure, Diff 
Press and dp based FLOW / Level measurements)   
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CPC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The Applicant should be a manufacturer of Pressure Transmitter (Electronic Transmitter for Pressure, Diff 
Pressure and DP based Flow / Level measurements)  meeting the Technical Specification requirement.  
2. The Applicant should have successfully executed the supply of pressure transmitter during the last seven 
(07) years, as on the date of bid opening.  
 
Documents to be submitted in support of meeting Technical QR: 
1. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as 
a   proof of being manufacturer of Pressure Transmitter. 
2. The PO (issued within last seven years from the date of application for enlistment) in support of 
award and completion certificate/copies of invoice to establish successful execution of the supply of 
Pressure transmitter as per QR. 
3. Standard Published catalogue.   
 
 
C) Documents to be submitted to find executed value of orders: 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous seven years from the date 
of application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of 
successful execution of supply against the POs to be submitted 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial 
years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, 
then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. GSTIN certificate, PAN, Power of Attorney, Letter of Undertaking, works information etc as 
mentioned in enlistment application pages of website www.vendor.ntpc.co.in 
 
Similar works means: Supply of Pressure Transmitter (Electronic Transmitter for Pressure, Diff Press and 
DP based FLOW / Level measurements) to power plant.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR ELECTRONIC TRANSMITTER FOR PRESSURE, DIFF 
PRESS AND DP BASED FLOW / LEVEL MEASUREMENTS   
   
         
Sl.No.   
   
Features   Essential/Minimum Requirements   
1.   
   
Type of Transmitter    Microprocessor based 2 wire type (loop powered), Hart protocol 
compatible.    
 
2   Output signal    4-20 mA DC (Analog) along with superimposed digital signal based 
on HART protocol.   
 
3   Accuracy   ± 0.060 % of calibrated range (minimum) for calibrated range 
greater than 400 mmwc.   
±0.065% of calibrated range (minimum) for calibrated range 
greater than 250 kg/cm2.   
± 0.10 % of calibrated range (minimum) for calibrated range less 
than 400 mmwc.   
 
4.   Turn down    
(minimum)   
50:1 for greater than or equal to span of 400mmwcl.    
20:1 for span below 400mmwcl.     
10:1 for span greater than 250 kg/cm2   
 
5.   Stability   
   
0.25 % of calibrated range for 10 years for calibrated range greater 
than equal to 400 mmwc on standard conditions of manufacturer.    
0.2 % of calibrated range for 1 years for calibrated range less than 
400 mmwc on standard conditions of manufacturer.   
0.15% of calibrated range for 5 years for static pressure greater than 
250 kg/cm2.   
   
6.a.   
   
Zero and span drift   
   
+/- 0.015% per degC at max span   
+/-0.11% per degC at min. Span   
6.b.   Power Supply    24V DC ± 10%.   
7.   Load impedance   500 ohm (minimum)   
8.   Housing   Weather proof as per IP-67, metallic housing with durable corrosion 
resistant coating   
9.   Over Pressure   150% of max. Operating pressure   
10.   Electrical   
Connection    
Plug and socket type except in hazardous area   
11.   Process connection   1/2 inch NPT (F)   
12.   Span and Zero   Continuous, tamper proof, Remote as well as manual 
adjustability from instrument with zero suppression and 
elevation facility.   
 
13.   Accessories   Diaphragm seal, pulsation dampeners, syphon etc. as required by 
service and operating condition.   
 
14.   Diagnostics and   
Display   
Self-Indicating feature and digital display    
15.   
   
Accessories   
   
2 valve manifold for absolute & Gauge pressure transmitters,    
3-valve manifold for Differential Pressure and 5 valve manifold for 
Level /Flow applications.    
The valve manifold shall be non-integral type (except Fuel Oil area). 
-For hazardous area, enclosure as described in NEC article 500   
-2 inch pipe mounting clamp   
16.   Certification    SIL 2 or Better   
17.   Adjustment/calibratio 
n/maintenance   
 
From hand held HART calibrator   
Notes   
1. LVDT type is not acceptable.   
2. Where the process fluids are corrosive, viscous, solid bearing or slurry type, diaphragm seals shall be 
provided. Parts below the diaphragm shall be removable for cleaning. The entire volume above the 
diaphragm shall be completely filled with an inert liquid suitable for the application.    
3. All the supplied transmitter should have valid calibration certificates from manufacturer and offered 
model should have type test certificate as per standard IEC-60770 / BS6447.   
4. Above mentioned (3,4,5 ) parameters/features of offered models shall be strictly as defined in standard 
published catalogue of the manufacturer only   
5.  All instruments envisaged for sea water applications, shall be provided with wetted parts made of Monel/ 
Hastelloy C or any other material (if provenance experience of the proposed material for such 
applications is established by contractor).  For Chlorine application:  Instruments shall be provided 
with wetted parts (e.g.  diaphragm seal, etc.) made of Hastelloy C. Also, filled liquid shall be 
Fluorolube oil/ Inert Hydrocarbon / CTFE etc., for these applications.   
   
For applications of FECL3 solution: Instruments shall be provided with wetted parts (e.g. diaphragm 
seal, etc.) made of Tantalum.   
6. For coastal areas, all instruments shall be provided with durable epoxy/ polyurethane coating for housings 
and all exposed surfaces of the instruments.    
7. Vendor shall furnish their Environmental stress screening test process/procedure, including but not 
limited to Burn-In Test and Elevated Temp test processes for eliminating infant mortile electronics 
components used in manufacturing of items under consideration as a part of vendor enlistment process.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 