 
NTPC Ltd 
USSC, VDC-Raipur  
Vendor Enlistment for O&M works package on Pan NTPC basis 
A 
CEG Details  
CEG No. BMD-31 
CEG DESCRIPTION Structural fabrication & erection Work in Main Plant and Off-Sites Area 
RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CPG-1/ VDC 
 B BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
1. All type of fabrication/erection work for, Mechanical, Electrical 
and C&I equipment. 
2. All type of safety related work as platforms, Hand railings, Toe-
guards, Ladder or Staircase have to be fabricated and welded as 
per requirement at different location & different elevation in all 
O&M area. 
3. Approaches of various Equipment, Canopy fabrication for all 
electrical/C&I Equipment’s as motors, actuators, Hoist, electrical 
panels, pneumatic actuator of dampers etc. 
4. Fabrication of structures with beam, channel & angle for safety 
platform/approach. 
5. Placement/ replacements of floor gratings or grills etc as per 
site requirement. 
6.  Fabrication, replacement & repair of staircase steps, approach 
platforms and other safety related miscellaneous structural 
fabrication works for Boiler & Offsite area. 
7. Any other Fabrication work in Main Plant and Off sites area as 
per EIC instruction. 
 
C 
TECHNICAL CRIETERIA: 
The applicant should have executed fabrication and erection work of steel structures of 
Minimum 100 Metric Tons in a single contract in “Boiler Area AND/OR Turbine Area AND/OR 
Off sites Area” in a Coal based Thermal Power Station of India having Minimum Unit Size of 
200MW during the preceding five (5) years reckoned as on the date of submission of 
application. 
 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at C) above. 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms and conditions, BOQ POs 
(issued within last Five (5) years reckoned as on date of submission of application in support 
of award and copy of Client’s Completion certificate/RA Bill/ final deviation statement from 
the concerned client /copies of invoice to establish successful execution as per QR. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
D 
Additional Documents to be submitted. 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated 
above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants applying for 
enlistment: - 
1). Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five 
years from the date of application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/F inal deviation 
statement from the concerned client in support of execution of job against each of the POs to 
be submitted. 
 
2).  Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed 
financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
 
3). NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate, if applicable. 
4). PF and Service Tax registration certificate. 
5). Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all documents/ facilities can be verified/ 
assessed if required. 
 
E 
Similar Works 
Similar work: means the applicant should have executed the work (s) 
of “Fabrication and Erection work” of Steel structures AND/OR 
“Mechanical Maintenance work including Fabrication & erection work of 
Steel structures” in any industry within the preceding last five (5) years 
from the date of submission of application. 
Notes 
I.Off Sites area excludes CHP& AHP & includes DM, PT, CW, CT, 
Firefighting Systems, Compressed Air System. 
II. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite 
(i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-up 
of composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any 
separate re-imbursement/ escalation shall also not be considered. 
III." All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the Special 
terms & conditions (STC) available at VDC portal vdc.ntpc.co.in "  
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
 
F 
Quality Plan (if 
Applicable) 
Not applicable 
G 
Category of 
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 