NTPC LTD
CC-OS
EOC NOIDA
A)
1.0 MEG NO. 46MEC-18
2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Rolled & Weld Pulverised Coal Pipe
3.0 RESPONSBLITY CENTRE WR-II
B)
C)
Sub:Qualifying Requirement For Vendor Enlistment For Supply Of “Rolled & Weld Pulverised Coal Pipe” 
MEG DETAILS
Technical Criteria of QR:                                                                                                                                                                                          
The applicant should be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
(1) A manufacturer/ fabricator (In case of fabricator, they should have plate bending machine) of pulverised coal pipe and                                                                                              
(2) Should have supplied pulverised coal pipe of size of 350 mm or more during last five years as on the date of application
Other Documents to be submitted:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, following documents are required 
to be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment:-
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from  the date of application. Copy of  
Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against the POs is to be 
submitted.
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date of 
application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered 
accountant may be submitted.
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / Certificate of registration from 
the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material.
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit.
D) Note-1
Note-2
Similar work means :                                                                                                                                                                  
Supply of pulverised coal pipe of size of 350 mm or more                                                                                                              
The executed value means basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against the reference PO(also 
applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Case(s) where PO value is composite(i.e. including taxes 
etc.),the applicant has to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO value mentioning basic value,taxes etc.
NTPC LTD
CC-OS
EOC NOIDA
A)
1.0 MEG NO. 46MEC-18
2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Rolled & Weld Pulverised Coal Pipe
3.0 RESPONSBLITY CENTRE WR-II
B)
Sub: Technical Specification  For Vendor Enlistment For Supply Of “Rolled & Weld Pulverised Coal Pipe” 
MEG DETAILS
Technical Specifications:                                                                                                                                                                         
PF pipe is fabricated by rolling M S Plate (IS 2062 – 2011 Grade E410 BO) and welding.                                                                  The 
thickness of the plate , the diameter of the pipe,  and the length of pipe shall be as per drawings attached with enquiry