NTPC LTD 
VEC, RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1 CEG No. BMD-34 
2 Brief description of 
CEG  
In Situ Major repair of HP valves (Including 100% removal of stellite 
coating of valve seat and rebuild up by welding with 100% blue 
matching)  
3 Responsibility Centre VEC 
4 Brief scope of work  In-situ repair of High-Pressure Valves:  
1. Dismantle the valve. 
2. Cleaning of the dismantled parts of the valve.  
3. Carry out the DPT on Seat. Inspection and identification of defective 
portions of the seal.  
4. The damaged seat of the valve must be repaired in situ. Agency 
must remove the stellite on the Seat surfaces completely (100%), 
even if the damage in the Seat surfaces is partial. Or the seat to be 
removed by  grinding/cutting and new seat to be welded as per site 
requirement.  
5. Repair and reconditioning of valve seating surface by 100% 
welding,  machining, grinding and lapping.  
6. Agency must carry out Welding with special electrodes, if any,  
required for repair of seat namely stellite electrode and electrodes for  
bonding dissimilar materials with utmost care ensuring no damage of  
the valve seat. Party shall submit the welding procedure, welding  
electrode details and discuss the same with EIC for his approval 
before  welding. Supply of special purpose welding electrodes are in 
the scope of vendor.  
7. Carry out In situ grinding, reshaping the seat and lapping by 
using special purpose portable equipment. All specialized 
equipment shall be in the agency’s scope.  
8. Lapping on the mating surfaces of Seat and Wedge.  
9. Ensuring 100% Blue matching on the mating surfaces of Seat and  
Wedge.  
10. Carry out the DPT on repaired Seat. Ensure no defective portions  
left out on Seat.  
11. Proper cleaning of all parts before assembly  
12. Assemble the valve with new/ repaired components, packing,  
gaskets etc  
13. Carry out Functional test of the valve after re-assembly to 
ensure proper opening and closing of the valve.  
14. Valve size up to 900NB / Class up to 4500 / Unit size up to 800MW.  
15. Work area: Both boiler & Turbine.  
Other details of works as per specific site requirement shall be given 
in Tender documents.  
5. Technical Qualifying 
requirements  
Qualifying Requirements: 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment shall meet the 
Qualifying Requirements stipulated here under: 
Technical Criteria: 
1) The applicant should have executed the work (s) of in-situ repair of 
valves including complete (100%) removal of stellite coating of valve 
seat and re-build up by welding with 100% blue matching of High 
Pressure Gate valves of size 250 mm (10 inches) or above with 
pressure class 2500 or above in Power Plants having Minimum Unit 
Capacity of 200 MW within the preceding 05 (five) years reckoned as 
on the Last Date of submission of application.  
6 Note For Technical 
Qualifying 
Requirement 
NIL 
7 Documents to be 
submitted by vendor 
in support of meeting 
QR  
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
 
1) Relevant and legible PO copies, with detailed scope of work, terms 
and conditions, BOQ, issued within last Five (5) years reckoned as on 
the Last Date of submission of application in support of award. 
 
2) Copy of Client's Completion certificate/RA Bill/ final deviation 
statement from the concerned client /copies of invoice to establish 
successful execution as per QR. 
NTPC can request more documents if felt necessary.  
8 Additional documents  
to be submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be 
submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar 
work during previous five years from the Last date of submission of 
application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final 
Deviation Statement from the concerned client in support of successful 
execution of jobs against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the 
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the Last date of  
submission of application. In case the audited documents are not ready 
/ available, then certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered 
accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations available with 
the applicant. 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant 
wants to submit, NTPC can request for more documents if felt 
necessary. Also, all documents/ facilities can be verified/ assessed if 
required. 
 
9 Notes 1) The word “Executed" mentioned in technical qualifying 
requirement means that the bidder should have achieved the criteria 
specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
2) In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior 
to the date of application duly certified by the applicant’s client shall be  
considered acceptable. 
Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-contractor may also  
be considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly  
certified by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the 
applicant in support of qualifying requirements 
3) Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite 
(i.e. including taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-up of 
composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any separate 
reimbursement/ escalation will not be considered. 
4) “Similar” work means In-situ works of “repair” / “servicing” / 
“overhauling” / “re-conditioning” / “reclamation” / “refurbishing” / 
“seat replacement” of valves in Power Plants having Minimum Unit 
Capacity of 200 MW.” 
5) All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the Special 
terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
10 Quality Plan (If 
Applicable) 
Not Applicable 
11 Category of 
Enlistment 
        Category-1 (upto Rs 4 crore) 
 