NTPC LTD
QR & SOW
Enlistment of vendors for Cement Concrete Road work- Construction/ 
Repair/Maintenance/Strengthening
1 CEG No. Road - 01
2
Brief description of
CEG
Qualifying requirements for Enlistment of vendors for Construction / 
Repair / Maintenance / Strengthening of Cement Concrete (CC) Road
3 Responsibility Centre VEC
4. Enlistment Category  Category 1 (from Rs. 50 lakhs upto Rs. 4.0 crs)
5
Brief scope of work
Following scope of work shall be covered under Enlistment Road-01
Construction/Repair/Maintenance/Strengthening of following roads & its 
associated work:
1. RCC road
2. PQC road
3. PCC Road
4. Geo-polymer road
5. Road Pavement work
6. Dry lean concrete road
7. GSB/WBM/WMM/Haulage road etc
8. Open area RCC/PQC/PCC work for store, parking, loading &
unloading siding area, area development  for heavy vehicle movement
Note:
a. Following work shall be considered as Associate work’s:  Road
embankment work, Earthwork for road work, Road Shoulder works,
Retaining wall (RCC, Brick & Stone), Drain, Culvert (RCC & Pipe),
Underground pipes, Stone pitching, Solid slab bridge, Flush causeway,
Slope protection, Precast work, Joint treatment, Road painting, Road
marking, Road hoardings, Road sign work, Minor bitumen road repair work
(up to 20% of work value), for completion of any of the above works.
b. The above scope of work is indicative only and the exact scope of
works would be projects/ station/ site specific and shall be given in Tender
documents.
Exclusion: Above Enlistment does not include:
1. Construction of Cement Concrete Road with deployment of
Mechanical/Sensor Paver.
  6 Technical Qualifying 
requirements
A. Technical Criteria
1.1)    The applicant should have executed work of “Construction / Repair 
/ Maintenance / S trengthening” work(s) of  “RCC/PQC/PCC/Geo-
polymer” Road during last five (05) years as on last date of submission of 
application.
Notes for Clause A above for Qualifying Requirements:
i. Cast-in-place Concrete Paving works shall also be considered for
technical criteria mentioned in Clause A above.
ii. Reference work executed by an applicant as a sub-contract may also
be considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly
certified by Project Authority/ owner specifying the scope of work 
executed by the sub-contractor in support of Qualifying Requirements.
iii. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the applicant
should have achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total
contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed.
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support of meeting 
QR
Relevant PO/Work Order copy and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA 
Bill/Final Deviation Statement.
7
Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted
Other Documents to be submitted:
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are required 
to be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment -
i. Three (3) POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of “Similar
work(s)”,  during previous five years from the last date of submission of
application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation
Statement from the concerned client in support of successful execution of
work against each of the POs to be submitted.
ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In
case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available,
certification of financial statements from a practicing-chartered accountant
is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to submit the certificate from
practicing chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, the
audited results of the three consecutive financial years preceding the last
financial years shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters.
Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO stating that the
financial results are under audit as on date of application and certificate from
the practicing chartered certifying the financial parameters are not available.
iii. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF & GST/Service Tax
registration certificate.
iv. PAN, PF and GST registration certificates
v. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants
to submit to get enlisted.
vi. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during evaluation.
8
Execution Capability 
      Criteria for 
Enlistment
The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and Average 
Annual Turnover (AATO) of Enlisted Vendors shall be Rs.50,00,000 (Rs. 
Fifty Lakh).
If any applicant does not submit the required documents so that their 
Execution Capability/ AATO exceeds Rs. 50,00,000 (Rs. Fifty Lakh), such 
applicant shall not be considered for enlistment even if they meet the 
qualifying Requirement (QR) of subject Enlistment.
Execution Capability of the vendor to execute similar work shall be 
calculated based on the values of three POs of highest execution value 
submitted by vendor as defined in the following table with an example:
Capability of 
execution of 
Similar Work as 
per PO values
PO-1 PO-2 PO-3
PO values 70 60 55
Execution 
Capability as per 
One/two/three POs
70x1.25=87.5
(E.C. up    to
87.5 L)
60x2=120
(E.C. up to 120 
L)
55x2.5=137.5
(E.C. up to 137.5
L)
Execution 
capability of the 
vendor to execute 
Similar Work
137.5
(Highest of 87.5, 120 and 137.5)
Vendor is capable to execute work up to cost estimate 
137.5 L
i.e. eligibility limit for enlistment up to cost estimate
137.5 L
9 NOTES for Execution 
Capability
1) “Similar Works” shall mean “ Construction/ Repair/ Maintenance/
Strengthening” work(s) of Road.
2) In case, reference work order(s) submitted by the applicant for
execution capability includes ‘associated civil works’ for road, the same
shall also be considered for arriving execution capability.
‘Associated civil work’ may include following(s): Dry lean concrete, 
Granular Sub-Base (GSB), Water Bound Macadam (WBM), Wet Mix 
Macadam (WMM) , Road embankment work, Earthwork for road, Road 
Shoulder works, retaining wall (RCC, Brick & Stone), Drain, Culvert (RCC 
& Pipe), underground pipes, Stone pitching, Solid slab bridge, flush 
causeway, slope protection, precast work, Road painting, road marking, road 
hoardings, Road sign work, Joint treatment for completion of road work
3) Execution of Cast-in-place Concrete Paving works shall also be
considered for calculation of Execution Capability.
4) Executed Value means basic value (excluding taxes) of the P.O.
pertaining to executed similar work. Where P.O. value is composite, the
applicant should have to give break-up of Composite PO value mentioning
Basic Value, taxes etc.
5) In case the PO includes portion of work of similar work, then the work
executed with respect to similar work only will be considered for arriving
executed value.
6) The word “executed” means the applicant should have achieved the
criteria specified in the qualifying requirements within the preceding Five
(5) year period even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is not
completed/ closed.
7) For the PO/WO which were awarded prior to preceding 5 years from
the last date of submission of application, the value of work executed in the
preceding 5 years from the last date of submission of application will be
considered.
8) In case of contract(s) under execution as on the last date of submission
of application, the value of work executed till such date will be considered.
9) Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover.
10 Plant covered in 
enlistment Pan NTPC
------------------End of Section-II--------------------