NTPC LTD 
Vendor Enlistment Cell (VEC)- CPG-1 
Naya Raipur 
 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of RTD's (Resistance 
Temperature Detectors) on PAN NTPC Basis. 
 
A) MEG DETAILS   
 1.0 MEG NO. 94MEG-09 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Enlistment for Supply of RTD's (Resistance Temperature 
Detectors) on PAN NTPC Basis 
 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE Vendor Enlistment Cell 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
 
a. The Applicant should be a manufacturer of RTD's (Resistance Temperature Detectors). 
b. The Applicant should have executed the supply of RTD's (Resistance Temperature Detectors) to 
“Thermal Power Plant” during preceding five (05) years from the last date of submission of application. 
C) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D) 
 
Documents required in support of meeting QR: 
 
(1) Supporting Documents for QR. 
 
      (a) Latest annual report OR Udyam Registration / NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS 
            license / ISO certificate / Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any 
            other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of RTD. 
 
      b) The credential work order(s) executed within last five years from the last date of submission of 
           application for enlistment and completion certificate/copies of invoice(s) to establish the execution 
         of the supply as per the QR. 
 
Documents to be submitted to establish the Execution Capability (EC): 
 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, 
following documents are required to be submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
 
1. Three (3) POs of the highest executed values of supply of RTD's (Resistance Temperature 
Detectors), during preceding five (05) years from the last date of submission of application. Copy of 
Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of 
supply against the POs to be submitted. 
 
 
E) Financials: 
 
1.Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial 
years reckoned from the last date of submission of application. In case the audited result for the 
preceding financial year is not available, certification of financial statements from a practicing-charted 
accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to submit the certificate from practicing 
chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of the three consecutive 
financial years preceding the last financial years shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO stating that the financial 
results are under audit as on last date of submission of application and certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters are not available. 
 
 
2.In case the applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the applicant can be considered 
acceptable provided the applicant further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of 
its qualification. 
 
(a)Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the applicant along with copies 
of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
(b)A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
 
3.GSTIN certificate, PAN, Power of Attorney, Letter of Undertaking, works information etc. as 
mentioned in enlistment application pages of website. www.vdc.ntpc.co.in 
 
Note: 
(i) Maximum Three Credential Order(s) shall be considered for calculation of the EC. 
(ii) The word “Executed” mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the contract is started earlier and / or is not completed / closed 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION FOR RTD’s 
 
 
 
 
Sl.No. 
Features Essential/Minimum Requirements 
 
 
1 
Type of RTD  
 Simplex / Duplex, 3 Wire / 4 Wire 
 
 Head less (Pot Sealed) / With head (along with screwed cap,      
  gasket and chain) 
 
   
  2 Element Type   PT 100 / PT1000 / Cu53 / Ni 100 / Ni 1000, Ungrounded Junction 
3 Application Temperature monitoring of different mediums in the power plant, 
(like oil, water, air , gas temperature measurement) 
4 Accuracy AS PER IS 2848, CLASS 'A' 
5 Insulation & Insulation 
Resistance 
  Mineral Insulated , Insulation Resistance AS PER IS 2848 
6 SHEATH MATERIAL   SS316 
7  
Response Time 
  
Less than 10 Seconds 
8  
Temperature Range 
 
Application Specific / between 0 Deg C to 400 Deg C 
9  
Physical Dimensions 
(Sheath diameter / 
Element length / Process 
connection) 
 
Application Specific 
10 Cable Type & 
Environment Protection 
(For Headless RTD's) 
Overall And Individual PTFE With SS braided weather proof cable 
, Pot Sealed For Environmental Protection 
11 Head Details (For Head 
Type RTD) 
Spring loaded ceramic terminal block mounted on SS base plate. 
 