Government eProcurement System
Tender Details
Date : 06-May-2026 04:49 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED||CONTRACTS AND MATERIALS (C and M)||SHARED SERVICES CENTRE-
C and M, BHILAI
Tender Reference
Number SSC/26014
Tender ID 2026_NSPCL_275691_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 4
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed No ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Offline Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Offline S.No Instrument Type
1 Direct Credit
2 Demand Draft
3 Bank Guarantee
4 NEFT
5 R-T-G-S
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 4
Cover
No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf
Scanned Copy of
EMD/COPY OF
PROOF OF E-
PAYMENT OF
BID SECURITY
2 PreQual .pdf
Power of
Attorney and NIL
Deviation
3 Technical .pdf
Technical QR
details along
with all
attachments
.pdf
Financial QR
details along
with all
attachments
.pdf
Certificates from
Third Party
Inspection
Agency/Statutory
Auditor
.pdf
Complete Set of
tender
documents with
Scope of Work
duly signed and
stamped
4 Finance .pdf Attachment-7
.xls Price Bid BOQ
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To NTPC
SAIL
POWER
COMPANY
LIMITED
EMD Payable At NTPC
SAIL
POWER
COMPANY
LIMITED
 
Click to view modification history
 
06/05/2026, 16:50 Government eProcurement System
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedViewTender&service=direct&session=T&sp=SJlZVd1VbZC5LD… 1/3
Work /Item(s)
Title Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, Rourkela
Work Description Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, Rourkela
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender Documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 1,03,13,006 Product Category Civil Works Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 180 Period Of Work(Days) 730 
Location NSPCL Rourkela Pincode 769011 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place NSPCL SSC Bhilai
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 30-Apr-2026 03:00 PM Bid Opening Date 22-May-2026 03:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
30-Apr-2026 03:00 PM Document Download / Sale End
Date
21-May-2026 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 30-Apr-2026 03:00 PM Clarification End Date 07-May-2026 03:00 PM 
Bid Submission Start Date 11-May-2026 10:00 AM Bid Submission End Date 21-May-2026 03:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT Document 445.32
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tender Documents AllOtherDoc.pdf All Others Doc 6302.80
2 Tender Documents QualifyingRequirement.pdf Qualifying Requirement 96.10
3 Tender Documents FormsandAttachmentsDebarment.pdfSection-VII-Forms and
Attachments_Debarment 2039.14
4 Tender Documents TechnicalSpecificationSOW.pdf Section V Technical
Specification and SOW 216.20
5 Tender Documents SCC.pdf Section IV SCC 76.88
6 Tender Documents GCC.pdf Section- III GCC 489.49
7 Tender Documents ITB.pdf Section-II ITB 36371.76
8 BOQ BOQ_322013.xls Section-VI BOQ 404.00
 
 
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. nidhi.kesharwani@nspcl.co.in Nidhi Kesharwani NIDHI KESHARWANI
2. pratibhasoni@nspcl.co.in Pratibha Soni PRATIBHA SONI
3. arti.choure@nspcl.co.in Arti Choure ARTI CHOURE
4. ab.kumar@nspcl.co.in Abhishek Kumar ABHISHEK KUMAR
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status Yes
Show Finance bid
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal
places
2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
06/05/2026, 16:50 Government eProcurement System
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedViewTender&service=direct&session=T&sp=SJlZVd1VbZC5LD… 2/3
2 MSEs Order 2012 Not Applicable Works Contract
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name AGM (SSC-C and M)
Address NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED (NSPCL), Shared Service Centre, Bhilai Expansion Site, Near Purena
Village, Bhilai (East), PO-Dist Durg (CG) Pin Code-490021
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By Pratibha Soni
Designation Sr Manager
Created Date 24-Apr-2026 03:41 PM
 
06/05/2026, 16:50 Government eProcurement System
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app?component=%24DirectLink&page=PublishedViewTender&service=direct&session=T&sp=SJlZVd1VbZC5LD… 3/3
 
NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY 
LIMITED 
(A joint venture of NTPC & SAIL) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Terms and Conditions  
(ATC) 
SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, SSC-Bhilai  
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
  
NIT / Tender Enquiry NO.  NSPCL/SSC–Bhilai /GEPNIC Bid no. 2026_NSPCL_275691_1 
Name of Package: Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, 
Rourkela  (SSC/26014) 
 
Additional Terms & Conditions (ATC) of this tender comprises the following documents: 
a. Section-I: Invitation for Bids (IFB)/Tender Enquiry /Notice Inviting Tender 
(NIT). 
b. Section-II: Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
c. Section-III: General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
d. Section-IV: Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
e. Section-V: Technical Specifications and Bid Drawing s (Scope of 
Supply/Service) 
f. Section-VI: Schedule of Quantities (SOQ) / Bill of Quantities (BOQ)  
g. Section-VII: Forms and Procedures 
 
2. A complete set of documents as mentioned above are enclosed. 
 
3. Bidders are required to submit the documents as men tioned in the check list 
appended below while submitting their bid and submi t the dully filled check list 
online on Gepnic portal. 
 
Formats of the documents required to be submitted a s per this check list can be 
referred from “FORMS”. 
 
4. Instructions for filling the Price Bid: 
 
a)  The total estimated value of Rs.  1,03,13,005.62 /- (i.e. Rupees One Crore Three 
Lakhs Thirteen Thousand Five and Sixty-Two Paisa On ly) (lump sum) is 
Exclusive of GST, Wage escalation & PMJJBY & PMSBY. 
 
b)  Line item 10 consists of 06 BOQ items. 10.10 to 10.60    
 Line item 20 consists of 19 BOQ items. 20.10 to 20.190 
 Line item 30 consists of 05 BOQ items. 30.10 to 30.50 
 
c)  The bidder has to indicate premium (%) or Discount (%) in BOQ 
 
d)  Bidder has to indicate GST (%) as applicable seven (7) days prior to last date of 
Bid Submission in Attachment -7 (DECLARATION REGARDING GST). 
  
 Check List 
  
Bidder’s Sign & Stamp 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Document Required  Action required  Submitted   
Please tick ( √ 
) 
1 Attachment 1: Bid Security / EMD (as per ITB Clause 
No. 14.0)-  
 
 
 
 (i)  Bank Guarantee, strictly in the format provided 
in the tender document, Amount as per NIT, validity 
(225 days) as per tender document. 
To be uploaded 
online and Original 
BG to be submitted 
physically 
 
 Or   
 (ii) MSE (UDYAM only) certificate towards 
exemption of Bid Security / EMD. 
To be uploaded 
online 
 
2 Attachment 2: Authority to Sign the bid  To be uploaded 
online 
 
3 Attachment 3: Bidder’s Qualifications - Copies of 
Documentary evidence in support of the 
qualification criteria as per ITB Clause No. 5.4. 
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
 Undertaking duly certified and verified documents 
from their Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA in 
support of meeting Technical QR 
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
4 Attachment 5: Equipment/ Machinery deployment 
Schedule  
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
5 Attachment 4: General Declaration of Bidder  To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
6 Attachment 5: Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) 
Authorisation Form  
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
and authenticated 
from the concerned 
bank 
 
7 Attachment 6: Details of PF, ESI, PAN and GSTIN 
Regn  
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
8 Attachment 7: Declaration Regarding GST  To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
9 Attachment 08: Technical Compliance/ Nil Deviation  
Certificate 
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
10  Attachment 09: Declaration of Local Content  To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
11. Attachment 10: FORM OF ACCEPTANCE OF FRAUD 
PREVENTION POLICY. 
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
12  Attachment 11: FORM OF DEBARMENT OF 
BUSINESS DEALINGS POLICY  
To be uploaded 
online duly filled in 
 
13 Schedule of Quantities & Prices i.e. Financial Bid 
(Price Bid) BOQ  
To be filled online 
on GeM/Gepnic 
portal 
 
 
  
General Technical Evaluation (GTE)/Attributes 
 
Submission of bid on Gepnic Portal shall be deemed as bidder’s unconditional 
acceptance to all the following Attributes (GTE’s): 
 
Sl. 
No  
GTE Particulars  Bidder’s 
Response  
1 We, the bidder, hereby Confirm that we are a LOCA L 
SUPPLIER and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the 
PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the 
MINIMUM LOCALCONTENT requirements of the Tender.  
Accepted  
 
2 We, the bidder, hereby accept NSPCL Safety Rules.  Accepted  
3 We, the bidder, hereby accept the Fraud Preventio n 
Policy of NSPCL. (Attachment 10 of FORMS)   
Accepted  
4 We, the bidder, hereby accept Policy & Procedure for 
Debarment from Business Dealings of NSPCL. 
(Attachment -11of FORMS)  
Accepted  
5 We, the bidder, hereby certify full compliance on  clause 
as per tender documents on Restrictions on 
procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a 
land border with India.  
Accepted  
6 We, the bidder, hereby certify full compliance to  all 
provisions of Bid Documents.  
Accepted  
7 We, the bidder, hereby certify full compliance on  
Qualifying Requirements  
Accepted  
 
Acceptance of above GTE shall be considered as bidd er's confirmation to the 
following conditions:  
 
(1) With reference to our Bid submitted against the  tender, Bidder hereby confirm that 
we comply with all terms, conditions and specificat ions of the Bidding Documents read 
in conjunction with Amendment(s)/ Clarification(s) / Addenda/Errata (if any) issued by 
the Employer prior to opening of Techno-Commercial Bids and the same has been taken 
into consideration while making our Techno-Commerci al Bid & Price Bid and they 
declare that they have not taken any deviation in this regard.  
(2) Bidder understand that in case the Products and/or Services offered do not meet the 
Technical requirements, then their bid shall be rejected as technically non-responsive.  
(3) Bidder also confirm that in case they refuse to  withdraw additional 
conditions/deviations/variations/exception, implicit or explicit, found anywhere in the 
techno- commercial bid, their bid shall be rejected as technically non-responsive.  
(4) Bidder further confirm that if any deviation/va riation in any form is found in their 
Price Bid, the EMD if any shall be forfeited.  
 
NSPCL 
(A joint Venture of NTPC & SAIL) 
SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, Bhilai 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
Section-I  
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT)  
 
FOR 
 
Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, Rourkela  
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Tender Ref: NSPCL-Bhilai/SSC/26014  
GEPNIC Bid no. 2026_NSPCL_275691_1 
NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED (NSPCL)  invites online bids through GEPNIC Portal on 
“Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-I: Techno-commercial Bid & 
Envelope-II: Price Bid) ” from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work 
briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
1.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK  
The scope of work comprises of Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at 
NSPCL, CPP-II, Rourkela.  
NSPCL intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & C onditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sale at at Government e-procurement 
portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website - https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app and as per the 
following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category Works Contract* 
Source of IFB/NIT NSPCL-SSC-Bhilai 
Mode of Tendering Open Tender 
NIT Date  
As per details at Gepnic Portal 
Document Download Commencement 
Date 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated se parately. 
Bid Security / EMD Rs. 2,00,000/- 
Benefit to MSME This is a WORKS CONTRACT . MSE 
Benefit is   NOT APPLICABLE  for the 
Package.  
Contract Period 24 Months 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
Purchase Preference to Local 
Suppliers/Preference to Make in India 
Class-I local suppliers only are eligible 
to participate in this tender, as defined 
in the bidding documents /Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), 
Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference  (if applicable) as specified on online 
portal”. 
 
2.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an  amount (as mentioned at Clause 2.0 
above) and Integrity Pact (if applicable). Integrit y Pact shall be submitted as per instruction 
mentioned in ITB/SCC. 
 
"Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable Bid Secur ity and Integrity Pact (if 
applicable) as per tender provisions shall be rejected by the em ployer as being 
non-responsive  and shall not be opened .  
 
IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS THROUGH E LECTRONIC 
FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF P ROOF OF E-
PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL 
EMD is not exempted in this tender being a works co ntract. Bidders are advised NOT 
to upload MSE/other document for availing exemption . Bids without adequate Bid 
Security and Tender fee, as per tender provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
3.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be download ed by any interested Bidder from the 
e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tend er is invited under e-tendering process. 
The bidders can enroll themselves on the website ht tps://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app. The 
use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class- 3  key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. 
Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to 
participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, c an obtain DSC Class-3 key from agencies 
authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal a lso has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process. 
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued.  
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on GEPNIC Portal only. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-Commercial 
Proposal” and “Price Proposal” online (https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app ), within the 
bid submission date and time. Only Techno-Commercia l proposals will be opened on 
the date and timed mentioned above or corrigendum/s (if any) thereof. 
 
4.0 BIDDER PARTICIPATION CRITERIA:  
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work: - Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, Rourkela. 
 Qualifying Requirement 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding  shall meet the Qualifying 
Requir ements stipulated hereunder qualifying requirement: 
 
5.0 Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audit ed Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Insti tute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), 
which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qu alifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) genera ted in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
6.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer  reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ hi s collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group 
companies to perform the contract, should the circu mstances warrant such assessment in the 
overall interest of the Employer. 
 
 
1 Technical Criteria 
1.1 The bidder should have executed the following simil ar works within the preceding 07 
years as on the date of technical bid opening which fulfils either of the following criteria as 
follows : 
1.2 (i) 01 (One) similar completed works costing not le ss than the amount equal to Rs. 
41.84 lakh.  
                                                  OR 
(ii) 02 (Two) similar completed works costing not l ess than the amount equal to Rs. 
26.15 lakh.  each. 
                                            OR  
(iii) 03 (Three) similar completed works costing not less than the amount equal to Rs. 
20.92 lakh. each. 
NOTE:  
 I.  Similar work means: The bidder should have executed  the work of Ash Dyke 
Construction or Ash Dyke Raising or Ash Dyke Mainte nance or Construction of 
earthen embankment or Civil Construction Works or Civil Maintenance Works. 
II.  Completed works means: The executed / completed portion of BOQ even if the work 
has not been completed in totality (Subject to furn ishing Proof of executed value of 
the work in the form of copies of RA bills, Relevant PO copy and Client's Completion 
Certificate / RA bill / Final Deviation Statement). 
III.  Reference work executed by bidder as a sub-contract or may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by the main contrac tor is duly certified by the Project 
Authority specifying the work executed by the sub-c ontractor in support of the 
qualifying requirements. 
IV.  The bidder shall submit the Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss Account for the 
specified period. In case where Audited results for  the preceding FY are not 
available, certificate of financial statements from  a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall also be considered acceptable. In case, Bidde r is not able to submit the 
Certificate from practicing Chartered Account certi fying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial year s preceding the last financial year 
shall be considered for evaluating the financial pa rameters. Further, a certificate 
would be required from CEO/CFO as per the format en closed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the company are under audit as on the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the certi ficate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
V.  Other income shall not be considered for arriving annual turnover.  
2 Financial Criteria  
2.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the bidder in  the preceding three (03) financial 
years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid openi ng shall not be less than Rs.52.31 
Lakh. (Excluding Taxes & Duty).  
The physical or any mode of assessment/verification s by Employer shall include but not be 
limited to the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works in 
lieu of credentials. A negative determination of su ch assessment of 
credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid.  
 
7.0 The reference works whose details have been declare d in their bid shall only be considered to 
ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The Employer at 
its discretion may seek any clarification and/or do cumentary evidence only for the reference 
works as mentioned above. However, no change or sub stitution of the reference works by 
new/additional plant for conforming to the specifie d qualifying Requirement shall be sought, 
offered or permitted”. 
 
“Bidders are required to furnish the details of the  past experience like authentic Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Ag reements, client certificates, completion 
certificate, etc. in support of meeting the Qualify ing Requirements based on which selection is to 
be made as per format. However, if any of the Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of 
Awards/Contract Agreements pertains to the work exe cuted by Bidder for NSPCL/NTPC in the 
past, then in respect of such Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract 
Agreements, Bidder shall not be required to enclose Client Certificate along with its Bid.” 
 
    i) All the bidders are required to submit the d etails of the past experiences, shall submit all th e 
documents, in support of Technical Qualification Re quirements (such as copy of Purchase 
Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for 
authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party 
Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from boo ks of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Bidders can also submit a certificate is sued by their Independent Statutory Auditor 
certifying the data required for meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
 ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly c ertified and verified documents from their 
Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR along with a certificate 
regarding verification of authenticity of documents  as per the format placed at Annexure-II 
(Appendix-1 to Attachment-3 - Undertaking from Stat utory Auditor) and/ or Annexure-III 
(Appendix-2 to Attachment-3 - Undertaking from TPIA ). All the documents submitted by the 
bidder in support of meeting Technical QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ 
or specified TPIA.  
 
     iii) In case documents are certified & verifie d for authenticity through TPIA, the verification a nd 
certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIAs:  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18) TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not 
certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and 
the bid shall be liable for rejection.  
 
iv) The Bidder shall be responsible to get their do cuments/ credentials in support of Qualifying 
Requirements verified & certified by their Statutor y Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the 
costs pertaining to third party verification and ce rtification (including those by statutory auditors)  
shall be borne by the Bidder. Employer shall have n o liability (financial or otherwise) towards the 
same and shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory 
Auditor. 
 
8.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to part icipate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make i n India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids.  
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land bord er with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender o nly if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the G overnment of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such  case no bidder / intending bidder shall 
have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
11.0 NSPCL reserves right to amend any bid/tender condit ions through appropriate 
CORRIGENDUMS published in the portal AT ANY TIME. N SPCL also reserves the right to 
extend/change the bidding schedule through publishi ng necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the 
portal if the situation demands so AT ANY TIME. The  corrigendum as decided by NSPCL and 
deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions therein. This prevails over the 
relevant provisions elsewhere in the bid document. The corrigendum/amendment as 
published/posted in the portal will be binding on B idders and it will be assumed that the 
information contained therein have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders are 
advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendums, if any . 
 
12.0 The bidding document is available online. A complet e set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app . The 
Bidder would be required to register on the website.  
First time users are required to register themselve s on GEPNIC Portal only. First time users not 
allotted any vendor code by NSPCL, should send a co py of the registration details to the e-mail 
address specified in this NIT under Address for Com munication with following details at least 
three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card,  
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by b ank  
Note:  No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
13.0 Address for communication: 
 
AGM/Sr. Manager (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED (NSPCL),  
Shared Service Centre, Bhilai  
Expansion Site, Near Purena Village, Bhilai (East), PO-Dist:Durg (C.G.) 
Pin Code-490021 
Tel. No.: 0788-2282435 
Email: ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in/pratibhasoni@nspcl.co.in   
 
 Websites: https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app  or www.nspcl.co.in  
 
14.0 Registered Office: 
NTPC- SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
4TH  Floor, NBCC Tower,  
15, Bhikaji Cama Place,  
New Delhi – 110066 
Website: www.nspcl.co.in  
 
 
 
NTPC-SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A JOINT VENTURE OF NTPC & SAIL) 
P.O.-Bhilai (East)- 490021, Distt. Durg (C.G.) 
Phone : 0788-2282414 
 
 
TENDER DOCUMENTS 
FOR  
 
Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, 
Rourkela. 
 
Tender No.: SSC: 26014 
NIT Ref. : 0230/SSC/CS/OT/01/2026-27 dated: **/**/2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NSPCL-Bhilai 
 
 
Issued to, 
 
 M/s . _______________________________ 
         _______________________________ 
         _______________________________ 
  
 
Ref. No. 0230/SSC/26014 Date: **/**/2026 
Sub: " Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, Rourkela.”. 
NIT No.: 0230/SSC/CS/OT/01/2026-27        dated:  **/**/2026. 
SPECIAL NOTE 
1. This tender document issued to you does not automatically imply that you are qualified for the subject 
tender. NSPCL-BHILAI reserves the right to reject t he bid in case it is found at a later date during 
evaluation of Bid, that bidder is not meeting the stated qualifying requirements of the NSPCL, Bhilai. 
2. The bidder has to submit their offer in three parts. 
a. Part ‘A’  (EMD, Letter of Under taking, Power of At torney & No Deviation Certificate) : 
Envelop No.-1 contains EMD, POA (Proprietorship-Affidavit, Partnership-Deed, Company- 
Board Resolution/Director Details ), Letter of Undertaking (On non-judicial stamp pap er of 
Rs.50.00), No Deviation Certificate. 
b. NB: Letter of Undertaking (On non-judicial stamp pa per of Rs.50.00) must be submitted 
to NSPCL Bhilai within Bid opening date & time.  EMD documents to be sent to AGM(SSC-
C&M), NSPCL/Bhilai –Expansion Site, Near Purena Vil lage, Bhilai (East) PO Distt.-Durg, 
C.G. 490021 in hard copy document. 
c. Part ‘B’  (Technical Bid)  Other (Except BOQ) : To be submitted online (Gepnic Bid) documents 
related to qualifying requirement as per enclosed NIT and set of tender documents with Scope 
of Work, Terms and Condition (Except BOQ), Power of Attorney & No Deviation Certificate duly 
signed and stamped on each page. (Tech. Bid): to be uploaded in Gepnic portal.  
Form for Qualification Details is to be submitted in Part 'B'.  
d. Part ‘C’ (Price Bid): To be submitted online under BOQ . 
3. Part-‘A’ (EMD, Letter of Under taking, Power of Att orney & No Deviation Certificate) Shall be 
opened on the specified date indicated in the tender document. 
Part-‘B’ (Technical Bid)  shall be opened immediately after the envelope one  if EMD, letter of under 
taking, No Deviation Certificate & Power of Attorne y found in proper manner. Credential and other 
related documents shall be evaluated and the only qualified agencies are to be considered. 
Part-‘C’ (Price Bid)  shall be opened on later date for the agencies who  are qualified and meeting our 
qualifying requirement. 
 
Tenderer/Bidder        SM (SSC-C&M) 
 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT-I 
 
1.0 ABOUT THE PROJECT  
 
1.1 NSPCL Bhilai has set up 2X250 MW  Expansion Power Plant in Bhilai, District Durg of Chhattisgarh 
State laying latitude and longitude of  21o1' North  and 81o26' East . NSPCL is also having a Captive 
Power Plant of 74 MW  capacity inside the premises of Bhilai steel Plant (PP-II). 
 
NSPCL ROURKELA (Odisha)  has two units PP2(having 2X 60 MW units) and Expan sion unit having 
1X250 MW unit. 
 
NSPCL DURGAPUR (WEST BENGAL)  has 2X 60 MW units and 2X 20 MW Unit.  
 
2.0 SUBMISSION OF BIDS:  
 
2.1  The bidder shall quote as per the enclosed price schedule (Gepnic Bid). 
 
2.2  All the bids shall be prepared by typing or printin g with indelible black ink in the ‘Schedule’ of 
rates. The Bidder’s bid and the documents attached thereto shall be considered as forming a part of 
the contract documents. 
 
2.3  The outside of the envelope should also indicate cl early the name of the bidder and his address. In 
addition, the left-hand corner of the envelope or c ontainer should indicate the TENDER ENQUIRY 
NUMBER AND THE BID OPENING DATE AND TIME. 
 
2.4  The Bid is to be submitted online in the Gepnic POR TAL: Documents related to qualifying 
requirement as per enclosed NIT and set of tender d ocuments with Scope of Work, Terms and 
Condition (Except BOQ), Power of Attorney & No Devi ation Certificate duly signed and stamped 
on each page. (Tech. Bid): to be uploaded in Gepnic  under Tech. Response. Form for Qualification 
Details is to be submitted in Part 'B’. 
 
2.5  The Bidder has the option of sending the bid (Envel op-I) by registered post or by submitting bid in 
person so as to reach by the date and time indicate d in the tender documents. Bid submitted by 
Telex/Telegram will not be accepted. 
 
2.6  Bids submitted after the time and date fixed for th e receipt of bids as set out in the said Notificati on 
are liable to be rejected and returned to the Bidders. 
 
2.7  The owner reserves the right to reject any bid whic h is not submitted according to the instructions 
stipulated above. 
 
2.8  The rates quoted by the bidder shall be all inclusi ve for provision of all incidental expenses 
necessary for proper execution and completion of wo rk in full in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the bid documents. 
 
3.0 LANGUAGE OF THE BID:  All information in the bid shall be in English, Fa ilure to comply will 
disqualify a Bid. 
 
4.0 SIGNATURE OF BIDS:  
 
4.1  The Bid must contain the name, residence and place of business of the person or persons making the 
bid and must be signed and sealed by the bidder wit h his usual signature. The names of all persons 
signing should be typed or printed below the signature. 
 
4.2  Bid by the partnership firm must be furnished with all names of all partners and be signed with the 
partnership name, followed by the signature (s) and  designations of the authorized partner (s) and 
other authorized representative (s). 
 
4.3  Bids by Company / company must be signed with legal  name of the Company / Company by the 
president, Chairman or by the Secretary or other pe rson or persons authorized to bid on behalf of 
such Company / Company in the matter. 
 
4.4  A bid by a person who affixes to his signature the president, Chairman, Secretary, Agent, or other 
designation without disclosing his principal will be rejected. 
 
4.5  Satisfactory evidence of authority of the person si gning on behalf of the bidder shall be furnished 
with the bid. 
 
4.6  The bidder’s name stated on the proposal shall be the exact legal name of the firm. 
 
4.7  Erasures or other changes in the bid documents shall bear the initial of the person signing the bid. 
 
4.8  Bid not conforming to the above requirements of signing may be disqualified. 
 
5.0  A tenderer shall quote in figures as well as in wor ds rate (s) of tender. The amount for each item 
should be worked out and the requisite totals given . Special care shall be taken to write rates in 
figures as well as in words, and the amounts in fig ures only in such a way that interpolation is not 
possible. 
 
The total amount shall be written in figures and wo rds. In case of figure the words Rs. should be 
written before the figures of rupees and the word P aise after the decimal figures .e.g. Rs 0.15 Paise 
and in case of words, the words Rupees should prece de and the words, paise should be written at the 
end. Unless the rate is in whole rupees and followe d by the word only it should invariably be up to 
two places of decimal. 
 
6.0  In the event of discrepancy between the rate given by the tenderer as described in words and that 
stated in figures the description in words shall prevail. 
 
7.0  In the event of an error occurring in the amount co lumn of schedule as a result of wrong extension 
of the unit rate and quantity, the unit rate shall be regarded as firm and extension shall be amended 
on the basis of the unit rate. 
 
8.0  UNDERSTANDING AND CLARIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS:  
 
8.1 The bidder is required to carefully examine the  bid documents and fully inform himself as to all t he 
conditions and matters which may in any way affect the scope of the works or the cost thereof. If 
any bidder finds discrepancies or omissions in the bid documents or is in doubt as to the true 
meaning of any part, he shall request in writing fo r an interpretation/clarification from/to owner. 
After receipt of such interpretations or clarificat ions, the bidders shall submit his bid within the t ime 
and date as specified in the bid Notice. All interp retations and clarifications as are issued by the 
NSPCL in the form of amendment to the tender docume nts shall from a part of the tender 
documents and accompany the bid. 
 
8.2 Verbal clarifications and information given by owner or its employees or representative shall not in 
any way be binding on owner. 
 
9.0 EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT (EMD)  
 
9.1 The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of Bid an E arnest Money Deposit (EMD) of Rs. 2,00,000.00 (Rupees Two 
Lakh only) prescribed, in a separate envelope, superscripted on the top as under: "Original Bid Security For 
Tender No- 0230/SSC/26014  Due on **/**/2026  From 
……………………………………….……………………………….(Name of the bidder).. 
9.2 The EMD offered shall, at bidder's option, be i n the form of a crossed demand draft / pay order / banker's 
cheque in favour of NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED payabl e at Bhilai  or an unconditional 
and irrevocable Bank Guarantee from any of the bank  specified in the bidding documents. The format of Bid 
Guarantee towards Bid Security shall be in accordan ce with the form of bid security included in the bi dding 
documents. The Bid Security shall remain valid for 225 days from Bid opening date. 
9.3 The EMD shall be accompanied with a Letter of U ndertaking on non-judicial paper of Rs. 50/- in the  
Performa prescribed in the bidding documents. The E MD and Letter of Undertaking shall be furnished in 
separate sealed envelopes. The prescribed format of Letter of Undertaking is enclosed here with. 
9.5 Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable EMD, N o Deviation Certificate, POA in accordance with 
aforesaid provisions shall be rejected by the Owner  as being non-responsive and returned to the Bidder s 
without being opened. 
9.6 The Bid Security of all the unsuccessful Bidder s will be returned as promptly as possible, but not  later than 
one (1) month after the expiration of the bid validity period. 
9.7 The EMD of successful Bidder to whom the contra ct is awarded will be returned after the receipt of  Bank 
Guarantee towards Initial Security Deposit. 
9.8 The EMD shall be forfeited in any of the follow ing circumstances by the Owner without any notice o r proof 
of damage to the Owner, etc.: 
a.  If the bidder withdraws or varies its bid during the period of bid validity. 
b.  If the bidder does not accept the correction of its bid price pursuant clause 8.0 of GCC, Section – 
II. 
c.  If the bidder does not withdraw any deviation liste d in Statement of Deviation at the cost of 
withdrawal indicated by him. 
d.  If the bidder refuses to withdraw, without any cost  to the owner, any deviation not listed in 
Statement of Deviation but found elsewhere in the bid. 
e.  In the case of successful bidder, if the bidder fai ls within the time limit specified in bidding 
documents to furnish the required Security Deposit in accordance with clause 9.0 of GCC, 
Section – II. 
f.  If the supply/work is not commenced after the award of contract. 
g.  If the bidder/his representatives commit any fraud while competing for this contract pursuant to 
fraud prevention policy of NSPCL. 
9.9 For NSIC /MSE/ SSI Units and Registered Coopera tive Societies of Land Oustees are not required to submit 
EMD. But agency has to submit the relevant proof of  registration related to this work with validity pe riod. 
(Refer NIT Conditions). 
 
10.0 LOCAL CONDITIONS  
 
10.1  It will be imperative on each bidder to fully infor m himself of all local conditions and factors which  
may have any effect on the execution of the works c overed under these documents. The owner shall 
not entertain any request for clarifications from the bidders, regarding such local conditions. 
 
10.2  It must be understood and agreed that such factors (as stipulated in 10.1) have properly been 
investigated and considered before submitting the b id proposal. No claim for financial adjustments 
to the contract awarded under this document will be entertained by the owner. 
 
Neither any change in the time schedule of the cont ract nor any financial adjustments arising thereof 
shall be permitted by the owner, which are based on  the lack of such clear information or its effect 
on the cost of the works to the bidders. 
 
11.0 PRICE BASIS, CURRENCIES AND PAYMENTS:  
 
11.1  The bidder shall quote in his bid rates as required  in the price schedule for the entire 
scope/description of the work. Bids based on a syst em of pricing other than that specified shall be 
rejected. 
 
Bid prices shall be in rupees only. 
 
All payments due shall be paid in rupees. 
 
11.2  “If the rates/prices quoted by the successful bidde r for certain items of the Bill of Quantities 
(wherever such rates/prices have been called for in the bids,) are found to be abnormally high or low 
in relation to the Engineers estimate of the cost o f work to be performed under the Contract. Then 
NSPCL may require the bidder to produce detailed ra te/prices analysis for any or all items of the 
Bill of Qualities to demonstrate the internal consi stency of these rates/prices with the construction 
methods and schedule proposed. After evaluation of the rate/price analysis NSPCL may require that 
the amount of performance security be increased at the expense of the successful bidder to a level 
sufficient to protect NSPCL against financial loss in the event of default by the contractor under the  
Contract, if award is placed on recommended bidder”. 
 
12.0 As regards Income-Tax, Surcharge on Income Tax and any other corporate tax, owner shall not bear 
any tax liability in respect of the contract irresp ective of the mode of contracting. The contractor 
shall be liable and responsible for payment of such  tax, if attracted, under the provisions of the 
Indian Laws, owner shall deduct Income Tax at sourc e from all the payments to be made to the 
contractor in accordance with the provisions of Ind ian Income Tax Laws as applicable from time to 
time and deposit the same to the concerned Government Authorities.  
 
13.0 POLICY FOR BIDS UNDER CONSIDERATION:  
 
13.1 Bids shall be deemed to be under consideration  immediately after they are opened until such time 
official intimation of award/rejection is made by o wner to the bidders while the bids are under 
consideration, bidders and/or their representatives , or other interested parties are advised to refrai n 
from contacting by any means, owner and/or its empl oyees/ representatives on matters related to the 
bids under consideration. The bidders will not be p ermitted to change the substance of bid, after 
their bid has been opened formally. 
 
13.2 Owner is not bound to enter into any correspon dence with the bidders or his representatives on an y 
matter or to give reason for its decisions other than as specifically stated in these documents. 
 
14.1 The submission of any bid connected with these  documents shall institute an agreement that the 
bidder shall have no cause of action of claim, agai nst the owner for rejection of his bid. The owner 
shall always be at liberty to reject or accept any bid or bids at his sole discretion an any such acti on 
will not be called into question and the bidder shall have no claim in that regard against the owner. 
 
14.2 The bid should be kept valid for a period of s ix (6) calendar months from the date set for openin g of 
bids. 
 
15.0 AWARD OF CONTRACT:  
 
15.1 Notification of award of contract will be made  in writing to the successful bidder by the owner. 
 
15.2 The contract will be awarded to the best quali fied and responsive bidder offering the lowest 
evaluated bid in conformity with the requirement of  these documents and the owner shall be sole 
judge in this regard and subject to the provisions of this instruction to bidders and other terms and 
conditions detailed out in these documents. A non-r esponsive offer is one which affects in any way 
the prices, quality, quantity or delivery period or  which limits in any way the responsibilities or 
liabilities of the bidders or any rights of the own ers as required in these documents. However, the 
owner may waive off any minor informalities or irregularities in the bid. 
 
16.0 Not withstanding anything contained therein an d without prejudice to other rights, the owner 
reserves the right to split the contracts and award  separate contracts to two or more parties in line 
with the terms and conditions specified in these documents. 
 
16.1 Owner reserves the right to rejection/acceptan ce of the whole or any part of the tender. The bidd er 
shall be responsible and shall be bound to perform the job allocated to him at his quoted rates 
accepted by the owner. Owner also reserves the righ t to appoint one or more parallel contract with 
the successful tenderer.   
17.0 The ‘INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS’, ‘SPECIAL CONDIT IONS OF CONTRACT-I&II’ shall 
form part of the contract. The contract besides sha ll also be exclusively governed by the General 
Conditions of Contract and Special Conditions of Contract prescribed by NSPCL. 
 
18.0 CONDITIONAL TENDERS ARE LIABLE TO BE REJECTED.  
 
We have noted the above instructions for bidders an d we agree to fully comply with these 
requirements. 
                                                                                                                       (Sign and seal of the Bidder)  
 
VENDOR DETAILS 
 
Bidders are requested to the format fill up and submit along with the tender. 
(Bids with incomplete information are liable to be rejected) 
 
01. NAME OF COMPANY / FIRM  :...................... ........................................................................ 
      :............................................ .................................................. 
02. CORRESPONDANCE ADDRESS :....................... ....................................................................... 
      :............................................ .................................................. 
      :............................................ .................................................. 
03. CONTACT PERSON   :............................. ................................................................. 
 (NAME & DESIGNATION)  ............................ ................................................................... 
a) PHONE /MOBILE NO. (s)  :........................ ...................................................................... 
b) EMAIL ID (s)     :.............................. ................................................................ 
c) FAX NO. (s)    :................................ .............................................................. 
04. TYPE OF COMPANY   :............................ .................................................................. 
05. NAME OF PARTNERS   :........................... ................................................................... 
06. P.F. CODE NO. ( *)   :.............................................. ................................................ 
07 PERMANENT ACCOUNT NO ( *) :…………………………………………...….....……..…….……  
08. EMPLOYEE STATE INSURANCE ( *):………………………………………...................……………… 
(ESI) NO 
09. GSTIN (*)    :................................. .......................................................... 
10. LABOUR LICENCE NO.  :.......................... ................................................................... 
11. SALES TAX NO    :                                                                                             
12. ELECTRICAL LICENCE ‘A’ NO. :................... .......................................................................... 
 (IF APPLICABLE) 
13. REGISTRATION  (IF ANY)   :....................................... ...................................................... 
 
(*) –Mandatory (Kindly attach Photocopy)  
 
 
 
 
         (SIGNATURE OF BIDDER) 
         Name: 
         Seal of Company  
1 | P a g e  
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work: - Biennial Ash Dyke Maintenance Work -2025-27 at NSPCL, CPP-II, Rourkela. 
 
 Qualifying Requirement 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding  shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder qualifying requirement: 
 
1 Technical Criteria 
1.1 The bidder should have executed the following similar works within the preceding 07 years as on 
the date of technical bid opening which fulfils either of the following criteria as follows: 
1.2  
(i) 01 (One) similar completed works costing not le ss than the amount equal to Rs. 41.84 
lakh.  
                                                  OR 
(ii) 02 (Two) similar completed works costing not l ess than the amount equal to Rs. 26.15 
lakh.  each . 
                                            OR  
(iii) 03 (Three) similar completed works costing not less than the amount equal to Rs. 20.92 
lakh. each. 
 
NOTE: 
 I.  Similar work means: The bidder should have executed  the work of Ash Dyke 
Construction or Ash Dyke Raising or Ash Dyke Mainte nance or Construction of earthen 
embankment or Civil Construction Works or Civil Maintenance Works. 
II.  Completed works means: The executed / completed portion of BOQ even if the work has 
not been completed in totality (Subject to furnishi ng Proof of executed value of the work 
in the form of copies of RA bills, Relevant PO copy  and Client's Completion Certificate / 
RA bill / Final Deviation Statement). 
III.  Reference work executed by bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided 
the certificate issued by the main contractor is du ly certified by the Project Authority 
specifying the work executed by the sub-contractor in support of the qualifying 
requirements. 
IV.  The bidder shall submit the Audited Balance Sheet a nd Profit & Loss Account for the 
specified period. In case where Audited results for  the preceding FY are not available, 
certificate of financial statements from a practici ng Chartered Accountant shall also be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
practicing Chartered Account certifying its financi al parameters, the audited results of 
three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a cer tificate would be required from 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding d ocuments stating that the financial 
results of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening 
and the certificate from the practicing Chartered A ccountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
V.  Other income shall not be considered for arriving annual turnover. 
 
2 Financial Criteria  
2.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the bidder in  the preceding three (03) financial years as 
on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall not be less than Rs.52.31 Lakh. (Excluding 
Taxes & Duty).  
 
2 | P a g e  
 
 
“Bidders are required to furnish the details of the past experience like authentic Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Ag reements, client certificates, completion 
certificate, Financial Details etc. in support of m eeting the Qualifying Requirements based on 
which selection is to be made as per format in Attachment -3 FORM FOR QUALIFICATION DETAILS 
(mandatory). 
However, if any of the Work Orders/Purchase Orders/ Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements 
pertains to the work executed by Bidder for NSPCL i n the past, then in respect of such Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, Bidder shall not be required to 
enclose Client Certificate along with its Bid.” 
No change in the price or substance of the bid incl uding substitution of Purchase Orders/Contracts 
declared in Attachment-3 of the bid with new/additi onal Purchase Orders/Contracts for conforming to 
Qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted.  
  
    i) All the bidders are required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the documents, in 
support of Technical Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract 
Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory 
Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant documents, 
Bidders can also submit a certificate issued by the ir Independent Statutory Auditor certifying the dat a 
required for meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
 ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly c ertified and verified documents from their Statutor y 
Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR along with a certificate regarding verification 
of authenticity of documents as per the format plac ed at Annexure-II (Appendix-1 to Attachment-3 - 
Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ or Annexure-III (Appendix-2 to Attachment-3 - Undertaking from 
TPIA). All the documents submitted by the bidder in  support of meeting Technical QR shall be digitally  
signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
 
       iii) In case documents are certified & verifi ed for authenticity through TPIA, the verification and 
certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIAs:  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18) TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not certified by 
specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documen ts, 
3 | P a g e  
 
shall not be considered verified/ certified for the  purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be liable  for 
rejection. 
 
    iv) The Bidder shall be responsible to get thei r documents/ credentials in support of Qualifying 
Requirements verified & certified by their Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs pertaining 
to third party verification and certification (incl uding those by statutory auditors) shall be borne b y the 
Bidder. Employer shall have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall not be li able for 
any claim/ dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor. 
 
Address for communication :  
AGM  (SSC-C&M) 
NTPC–SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED,  
Post Office: BHILAI (East), Distt. : Durg (CHHATTISGARH), Pin: 490 021 
 : 0788–2282446, 2347063  
Email:  ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in, pratibhasoni@nspcl.co.in 