 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR 
REACTIVE POWER COMPENSATION AT 240 MW DEVIKOT SOLAR PV 
STATION 
Bidding Document No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 1 of 6 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR REACTIVE POWER 
COMPENSATION AT 240 MW DEVIKOT SOLAR PV STATION 
  
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG)               Date: 04.05.2026 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code: NGEL-2026-TN000002 
Bidding Document No: NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
  
1.0 NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL), invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single Stage 
Two Envelope (i.e., Envelope -I: Techno -Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid) basis for  
Supply and Installation of 130 MVAR SVG Package for Reactive Power Compensation at 
240 MW Devikot Solar PV Station. 
 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope of work under the subject package inter alia includes the following as per requirements 
mentioned in detailed technical specifications.  
 
• Supply, installation, testing and commissioning of 3 Nos of SVG of Capacity 2x40 MVAR 
& 1X50 MVAR including   inspection, port clearance & shipping and transportation at 240 
MW (150MW+90 MW) Devikot Solar Project, District Jaisalmer (Raj). 
• Supply, installation, testing and commissioning of other required electrical equipment 
required to integrating with owner’s 33 kV System e.g.  disconnector, surge arrestor, 
Auxiliary Transformer and Control/Distribution panel. 
• All Civil Work required for SVG system 
• 19/33 kV 1C 400 Sq.mm Al armoured cable from Isolator yard to owner 33 kV System 
(Approximate route length 75 m to be laid on Cable tray, PCC Cable Trench). 
• 2  Years Warranty as per the specification. 
• All miscellaneous item e.g. overhead conductor, connector, lug, gland, earthing flat, 
earthing electrode, illumination, control and power cable 
• Extension of 33 kV Bus from both side by supplying and installing 2 Nos. of 33 kV HT 
Panels with complete accessories. 

 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR 
REACTIVE POWER COMPENSATION AT 240 MW DEVIKOT SOLAR PV 
STATION 
Bidding Document No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 2 of 6 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
• Mandatory Spares 
 
The detailed scope of work is as defined in the bidding document No.: NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG). 
 
3.0 NGEL intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources/ Borrowings. 
 
4.0 Detailed specification, Scope of work and Terms & Conditions are given in the bidding documents, 
which are available for examination and downloading at e-tender portal (as specified in this notice) 
and as per the following schedule: 
 
 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code (TSC) NGEL-2026-TN000002 
IFB Date 05.05.2026 
Period of Downloading of Bidding Documents From 05.05.2026 to 18.05.2026 
(till 17:00 Hrs) 
Pre-Bid Conference  NOT APPLICABLE 
Last Date for receipt of queries from prospective 
Bidders 20.05.2026 (till 11.00 hrs) 
Last Date and Time for receipt of bids comprising 
both Techno-Commercial Bid and Price Bid 28.05.2026 15:00:00 (IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno -Commercial 
Bid  28.05.2026 15:30:00 (IST) 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL  
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for the amount of INR 50,00,000/- (Indian Rupees 
Fifty Lakh only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.  
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER SHALL SUBMIT THE PROOF OF 
E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE ONLY. 
 
6.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
  
 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and 2.0: 
 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
 
1.1 The Bidder should have supplied, erected/ supervised erection and commissioned/ supervised 
commissioning of Static Var Generator based reactive power compensation system of cumulative 

 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR 
REACTIVE POWER COMPENSATION AT 240 MW DEVIKOT SOLAR PV 
STATION 
Bidding Document No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 3 of 6 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
installed capacity of 40 MVAr or above, out of which at least one system should have been of 10 
MVAr or higher capacity. 
 
OR 
 
1.2 The Bidder should have carried out Engineering, Procurement, and construction of at least 02 
(two) numbers of outdoor Air Insulated Bays at 33 KV or above voltage level which should have 
been in successful operation for minimum one (01) year as on date of techno-commercial bid 
opening. 
 
Notes for clause 1.0: - 
 
a. One number outdoor Air Insulated Bay shall consist of at least one number of three phase 
set for Current transformers, circuit breaker and isolators. The execution of bays as EPC 
Contractor means, such EPC Contractor is responsible for all the activities i .e., 
Design/Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Commissioning of project/work. 
b. In case the award for the reference works has been received by the Bidder either directly 
from owner of plant/substation or any other intermediary organization, a certificate from 
such owner of  plant/substation or the intermediary organization shall be required to be 
furnished by the Bidder along  with its techno -commercial bid in support of its claim of 
meeting requirement stipulated above. 
c. For route 1.2, certificate from owner of the plant/substation shall be furnished by the Bidder 
for the successful operation of the reference plant/substation.  
 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, should not be less than INR 26.5 Crores(Indian 
Rupees twenty six Crores fifty Lakhs only), during the preceding three (03) financial years as on 
date of techno commercial bid opening. 
  
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated at Clause 2.1 on 
its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking fro m its Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the contract by the Bidder in case of award.  
 
2.2 Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less 
than 100% (one hundred percent) of bidder’s paid -up share capital. In case the Bidder does not 
satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirem ent of Net worth based on the 
strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding 
companies wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company an d/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in 
combined manner should not be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of their total paid up share 
capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) 
of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
 

 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR 
REACTIVE POWER COMPENSATION AT 240 MW DEVIKOT SOLAR PV 
STATION 
Bidding Document No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 4 of 6 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1, X2,X3 are individual Net 
worth which should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of the respective paid up 
share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following document s on substantiation of its 
qualification: 
 
i. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
ii. Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding 
Company. 
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno -commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall 
be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited result of three (03) 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the company are under audit 
as on techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserves means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include  reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit 
and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written 
off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii. "Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act of India. 
IV. For Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days 
prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall be used.  
  
7.0 NGEL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ intending bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
 

 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR 
REACTIVE POWER COMPENSATION AT 240 MW DEVIKOT SOLAR PV 
STATION 
Bidding Document No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 5 of 6 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
8.0  Interested parties are required to get registered with M/s ISN Electronic Tender Services (ETS) 
website https://www.bharat-electronictender.com (if not already registered).  
  
8.1 The bidder shall be mandatorily required to submit a copy of “ Non-Disclosure Agreement” duly 
signed by the authorized signatory as per the format enclosed (Annexure-A) along with the IFB to 
enable the Employer to authorize the Bidder for procurement of the Bidding Documents. 
 
In case of any non-compliance in submission of Non-Disclosure Agreement, authorization shall not 
be provided to the bidders for procurement of bidding documents. 
Interested bidders are required to submit duly signed NDA , on ETS portal, prior to closing 
of Bidding documents sale period to enable the employer for authorizing the bidder to 
download the bidding documents online from the ETS portal. 
  
  
  
8.2 Issuance of Bid Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered to be 
qualified. The bids shall be submitted online. Bidder shall furnish Bid Security, Pass Phrases and 
Power of Attorney separately as detailed in Bidding Documents before the stipulated bid submission 
closing date and time at the address given below.  
 
8.3 After registration with ETS and submission of duly signed NDA as above, a complete set of Bidding 
Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from ETS Portal https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com with Tender Search Code NGEL-2026-TN000002.  
 
Interested bidders are required to ensure that they have downloaded the official copy of bidding 
documents against Tender Search code - NGEL-2026-TN000002from website of ETS before 
closure of Bid Sale Period. If Bidding Documents are downloaded without confirmation or without 
generating official copy serial number, then the bidders will not be able to submit the bids.  
 
For technical assistance, interested parties may call ETS Helpdesk at 0124 -4229071, 0124 -
4229072. 
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
 
 
9.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
10.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 

 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR 
REACTIVE POWER COMPENSATION AT 240 MW DEVIKOT SOLAR PV 
STATION 
Bidding Document No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 6 of 6 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
11.0 
 
Class-I Local Suppliers & Class-II Local Suppliers are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined 
in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017  and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may  apprise themselves of the 
relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
 
12.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
  
Contracts Services 
NTPC Green Energy Limited  
4th Floor, Renewables Building, NETRA Complex 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida 
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
 
Contact Persons 
Name & Designation Telephone No Mobile No E-Mail ID 
Vijay Pal Singh Yadav 
DGM (CS) 
+91-120-
2356627 9650992725 vijayyadav@ntpc.co.in   
Grishm Lata 
Sr. Manager (CS) ---------------- 9437017906 grishmlata@ntpc.co.in  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L401007DL2022GOI396282, Website: www.ngel.in 
 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) / NDA 
NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT 
THIS NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) made on this …….. day of ………...... 
20…..... Between ……………………………………………………………………………………….., 
a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, and having its Registered Office at 
…………………………………………………………………………………and Corporate Office at 
……………………………………………………………………………………………….. hereinafter 
referred to as “Company” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof mean and include its successors and permitted assigns), of the One Part; 
And NTPC Green Energy Limited, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013, 
and having its Registered Office at NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi 
Road, New Delhi - 110003, India,  hereinafter referred to as NGEL (which expression shall 
unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its successors and permitted 
assigns) of the Other Part. 
The Company and NTPC REL shall collectively be referred to as the “Parties” and individually 
as a “Party”. 
WHEREAS: 
A.  NGEL envisages to invite tender for the package SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF 130 
MVAR SVG PACKAGE FOR REACTIVE POWER COMPENSATION AT 240 MW 
DEVIKOT SOLAR PV STATION vide Bidding Document no. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) 
through which it intends to develop Wind Energy Projects won under Competitive Bidding 
Process and/or under Bilateral Arrangements through a competitive bidding process  
(“Evaluation”). 
B.  As part of Evaluation, the bidder shall be issued complete set of bidding documents. 
Further, the  bidder is also expected to examine and evaluate all instructions, forms, terms, 
conditions, specifications and other information as furnished as part of the  bidding 
documents for the purpose of submission of techno-commercial bids and/or evaluation of 
its bids and/or award of the contract and/or performance of the contract and/or operation 
of the package. 
 
C. It is anticipated by the Parties that, in the course of Evaluation, either Party may disclose 
to the other Party certain Confidential Information (defined hereinafter)  and the party 
disclosing such information shall be the Disclosing Party and that, the party  receiving such 
information shall be the Receiving Party as the case may be. 
 
D. It is also anticipated by the Parties that , after the award of the contract and/or during the 
performance of the contract and/or  during the operation of the package , a Party 
(“Disclosing Party”) may disclose to the other Party (“Receiving Party”) certain Confidential 
Information (defined hereinafter). 
E.  Accordingly, t he Parties are desirous of entering into this Non -Disclosure Agreement 
which sets out their mutual confidentiality obligations in respect of the Confidential 
Information disclosed to each other in the course of their discussions on the Evaluation. 
F.  Each Party undertakes to comply with the terms and conditions as contained hereinafter 
which shall govern the exchange and handling of the non -disclosure and use of the 
Confidential Information. 
 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) / NDA 
NOW THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES CONTAINED 
HEREIN, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS: 
1. Definitions and Interpretations: 
1.1  “Affiliates” means, with respect to any Person, a Person that directly or indirectly through 
one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, 
the Person specified. For the purposes of this definition, “control” (incl uding, with 
correlative meanings, the terms “controlled by” and “under common control with”) shall 
mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power, alone or together with others, 
to direct or cause the direction of the Management and policies of such Person, whether 
through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. 
1.2  “Confidential Information” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 2.1. 
1.3  “Disclosing Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.4  “Government” or “Governmental Instrumentality” shall mean any ministry, department, 
political subdivision, instrumentality, agency, provincial or municipal council, authority, 
body or entity, corporation or commission under the control of the GOI and any o ther 
local or other authority, agency or statutory body exercising powers conferred by Laws; 
1.5  “Laws” means all laws, statutes, enactments, acts of legislature or parliament, 
ordinances, rules, bye -laws, regulations, notifications, policies, guidelines, directions, 
directives, decision, decrees and orders of any Governmental Instrumentality having the 
force of law. 
1.6  “Materials” means the part of any tangible media upon or within which any part of the 
Confidential Information is recorded or reproduced in any form and shall include any 
storage device which forms a part of computer hardware. 
1.7  “Person” includes any natural person, firm, company, Governmental Authority, joint 
venture, association, partnership or other entity (whether or not having separate legal 
personality). 
1.8  “Receiving Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.9  “Representatives” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 3 (a). 
2.  Confidential Information 
2.1  “Confidential Information” means information which is legally owned and possessed by 
the Disclosing Party and which ought to be considered as confidential from its nature or 
from the circumstances surrounding its disclosure, in whatever form or media, imparted 
or disclosed by the Disclosing Party to the Receiving Party, in writing or by any other 
medium upon the execution of this Agreement or during the course of the discussions 
on the Evaluation. Confidential Information includes information: 
a) relating to the Disclosing Party’s business, corporate policies, strategies, operations, 
finances, employees, plans or opportunities and commercial information including 
 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) / NDA 
profitability information and charts and the identity of, or particulars about, the Disclosing 
Party, marked identified as confidential, restricted, secret or proprietary at the time of 
disclosure during the discussions on the Evaluation; 
b)  the fact that the discussions referred to herein are taking place, and all notes, extracts, 
compilations or Materials or media, which are copies of or derivative works of the 
Confidential Information. 
 But does not include any information which: 
a)  is now, or hereafter, through no willful act or failure by the Receiving Party, becomes, 
generally known or available to the public; 
b)  is furnished to the Receiving Party on a non -confidential basis by a third party whom 
the Receiving Party reasonably believes that the Disclosing party had not obtained it 
under an obligation of confidentiality.; 
c)  is an information which the Receiving Party can evidence as having been independently 
developed by it without violating this Agreement; or 
d)  is legally known to the Receiving Party prior to the time of disclosure by the Disclosing 
Party. 
2.2 Obligation of Confidentiality 
 The Receiving Party shall keep the Confidential Information strictly confidential and shall 
use it for the purposes of Evaluation and shall not disclose or divulge or provide any 
Confidential Information to a third party, in manner whatsoever, without the  prior written 
consent of the Company. In case the Receiving Party is required to disclose any 
Confidential Information in terms of any Law, the Receiving Party shall endeavor to give 
the Disclosing Party reasonable notice as may be legally possible prior to such disclosure 
to obtain any applicable protective order or equivalent and provide such assistance, as may 
be required by the Disclosing Party for the purposes of safeguarding such Confidential 
Information and further comply with the same. 
3. Undertakings and Covenants of the Parties: 
Each Party hereby agrees, undertakes, confirms and covenants with the other that: 
a)  it shall keep strictly confidential and not use, reveal, provide or transfer to any Person, 
directly or indirectly, the Confidential Information or any part thereof, except to such of 
its employees, directors, co -investors, debt financing sources, attorne ys, accountants, 
consultants or representatives (collectively, “Representatives”) strictly on a “need -to- 
know” basis for the purpose of Evaluation, and the Receiving Party shall at all times 
remain fully responsible for such Representatives’ compliance under this Agreement; 
b)  it shall not keep, reproduce, use for any unauthorized purpose or part with possession 
of any documents or Material relating to the Confidential Information, save as required 
for the purposes of Evaluation, except with the prior written consent of the Dis closing 
Party; 
 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) / NDA 
c)  it shall apply, adopt and enforce appropriate procedures and policies with regard to and 
in respect of transmission, publication and disclosure of the Confidential Information, in 
order to preserve the confidentiality or propriety of such information; 
d)  it shall exercise the same care in preventing unauthorised disclosure or use of the 
Confidential Information as it would take to protect and safeguard the confidentiality of 
its own information of a similar nature; 
e)  it shall maintain proper records and enforce strict accountability of all Confidential 
Information received from the Disclosing Party and whenever required to transmit 
publish or disclose or otherwise provide such Confidential Information subject to, and as 
may be permitted under this Agreement, it shall do so with due diligence and shall 
convey to the recipient of such information that the same is subject to non disclosure 
obligations under this Agreement, so as to put the recipient on notice that the recipient 
shall be held accountable in respect of disclosure of such Confidential Information and 
that the recipient is expected to maintain confidentiality as if the recipient was a party to 
this Agreement and obtain such assurances, agreement and underta king from the 
recipient that it shall return such information upon request by the Disclosing Party; 
f)  it shall ensure that the Representatives are made aware of the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement including without limitation the confidentiality obligations of the Receiving 
Party under this Agreement and abide by it at all times. 
g)  Any materials or documents that have been furnished by the Disclosing Party to the 
Receiving Party in connection with the relationship will be promptly returned by the 
Receiving Party, accompanied by all copies of such documentation or certification of 
destruction, within TEN days after the relationship has terminated or on the written 
request of the Company. 
4. Term: 
 Unless otherwise agreed to, expressly in writing by the Parties, the obligations hereunder 
shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with the terms hereof and shall 
terminate on the expiry of earlier of (i) the Parties entering into legally binding documentation 
in relation to or pursuant to the Evaluation; and (ii) twelve months from the date of this 
Undertaking; 
5. Rights and Remedies of the Disclosing Party: 
5.1 On the expiry of the term of this Agreement or upon its termination for any reason 
whatsoever or immediately upon the Disclosing Party’s request at any time during the term 
hereof, the Receiving Party shall forthwith return to the Disclosing Party all the Material 
which are capable of returning to the Disclosing Party, then in the possession of the 
Receiving Party which contain any such Confidential Information, and shall forth with take 
reasonable steps to expunge all Confidential Information (and any copy that may have been 
made) from any computer, word processor or other device containing the Confidential 
Information. 
5.2 In the event of breach of any of the conditions stipulated by this Agreement, the Disclosing 
Party shall be at liberty to take necessary steps to prevent the Receiving Party from 
 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) / NDA 
disclosing or using such Confidential Information except as authorized herein, including 
without limitation, terminate this Agreement by serving 30 (thirty) days prior notice, in 
writing. 
5.3 The Receiving Party acknowledges and undertakes that unauthorised disclosure or use of 
the Confidential Information by it shall cause irreparable damage to the Disclosing Party in 
such a way that the Disclosing Party cannot be adequately compensated in damages in an 
action at law. Accordingly, if any dispute arises concerning the disclosure or use of any 
Confidential Information by the Receiving Party, the Disclosing Party may seek injunctive 
relief restraining the un-authorised disclosure or use of the Confidential Information by the 
Receiving Party or specific performance of this Agreement. The above remedy will be in 
addition to any other legal or equitable remedy otherwise available to the Disclosing Party. 
6. Compliance with Law 
 Each Party acknowledges that some or all of the Confidential Information provided herein (in 
case Disclosing Party is a listed company) is or may be price -sensitive information and that 
the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by Law and  each Party 
undertakes not to use, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information in contravention of 
any Law. On acquiring any Confidential Information, each Party shall comply with all Laws, 
and shall indemnify and hold the other Party harmless aga inst any consequences arising 
from any violation by such Party or its Representatives of such Laws. 
7. Entire Agreement: 
 The terms and conditions herein constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the 
Parties on the subject matter of this Agreement and shall cancel and supersede all 
communications, negotiations, arrangements and agreements, either oral or written, 
between the Parties hereto, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 
8. Amendments: 
 No amendment to or modification of this Agreement shall be valid or enforceable unless 
reduced to writing and executed by the Parties hereto. 
9. Waiver: 
 The failure to exercise or delay in exercising a right or remedy under this Agreement shall 
not constitute a waiver of the right or remedy or a waiver of any other rights or remedies and 
no single or partial exercise of any right or remedy under this Agre ement shall prevent any 
further exercise of the right or remedy or the exercise of any other right or remedy.  
10. Notice 
10.1 Any notice, demand or other communication required or permitted to be given to either 
Party by, or made pursuant to, this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be personally 
delivered to such Party, sent by prepaid courier; or sent by facsimile transmis sion, 
charges prepaid, confirmed by prepaid courier to the following address: 
 
 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) / NDA 
To:   ……………………………………………………………. (Name of Company) 
Attn:   …………………………………………………………….. 
Address:  …………………………………………………………….. 
Phone:  …………………………………………………………… 
 
To: NTPC Green Energy Limited 
Registered Address: NTPC Limited, Core 7, Scope Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi-110003 
10.2 Any Party may from time to time change its address upon serving at least 5 (five) 
business days prior written notice to the other Party given in accordance with the 
provisions hereof. 
10.3 Any notice, demand or other communication delivered in accordance with Article (10.1) 
or (10.2) above if delivered during the normal business hours of the intended recipient, 
shall be deemed to have been received on the day of its delivery, otherwise on the next 
business day, and if sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been received on the 
date of its transmission by facsimile provided that in the case of a facsimile the recipient’s 
facsimile number appears on the senders transmission report (conf irmation copy to be 
sent by prepaid courier). 
11.0 Severability: 
 Any provision in this Agreement which is held to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or 
in part, under any applicable enactment or rule of law, shall be ineffective to the extent 
of such illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions and 
any such illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed to be restated to reflect as 
nearly as possible the original intentions of the Parties in accordance with the applicable 
law. 
12.0 Governing Law: 
 This Agreement shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the 
laws of India. 
13.  Dispute Resolution: 
 Courts at  Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the  disputes pertaining to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5755 (P2-SVG) / NDA 
14.  Counterparts: 
 This Agreement may be executed in 2 (two) counterparts, each of which when executed 
and delivered is an original and shall be retained by each Party and taken together shall 
constitute and evidence the same Agreement between the Parties. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed these presents, in duplicate, the day 
and year first herein above mentioned. 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by ………………………………………………………… (Name of Company) 
in the presence of 
…………………………………………………………. 
 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by NTPC Green Energy Ltd 
in the presence of 
………………………………………………………… 