NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
ENGAGING A CONSULTANT FOR PREPARATION OF DETAILED PROJECT REPORT 
FOR PROPOSED CAPTIVE JETTY FOR NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN HUB AT 
PUDIMADAKA.
VOLUME-I, II & III 
Tender Id.: B173&BB Dated:..2026
Bidding Document No.: CS-9590-737-9 
1. NTPC Limited on behalf of NTPC Green Energy L imited invites online bids on Single Stage
Two Envelope bidding basis (Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid , Envelop-II Price Bid ) for
“ENGAGING A CONSULTANT FOR PREPARATION OF DETAILED PROJECT REPORT FOR
PROPOSED CAPTIVE JETTY FOR NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN HUB AT PUDIMADAK A”, as
per the Scope of Work mentioned in bidding documents..
2. SCOPE OF WORK
Bidder's scope of work shall be providing consultancy service t o establish a ‘Captive Jetty 
facility near hydrogen hub and the connecting pipeline corridor between hydrogen hub and 
the proposed captive jetty facility’ (“PROJECT”), which shall inter-alia include but not limited 
to the following services:  
Stage 1: Preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) 
A. Field survey, Investigations and Data Collection
B. Data Analysis
C. Selection of jetty or jetty-less system and basic engineering of selected option
D. Costing
Stage 2: 
A. Approvals, Clearances, NOC from state and central statutory authorities
B. Assistance in execution of Concessionaire Agreement with APMB
Stage 3: 
A. Assistance for award of EPC packages and Project Management Consultant (PMC)
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the Vol-II,TOR of Bidding 
Document No. &6
 NGEL intends to finance the aforesaid Package with a mix of debt and equity 
 Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the following schedule: 
Issuance of IFB 07.05.2026 * 
Document Download start date 07.05.2026 * 
**Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if 
any)  
14.05.2026 * 
Bid submission end date & time Upto 04.06.2026* by 15:00 hrs. 
(IST)  
Pre-Bid Conference date & time  Not applicable 
Date & Time for opening of Bids  Upto 05.06.2026* by 15:00 hrs. 
(IST)   
Date & Time for opening of  Price bid Shall be intimated after opening 
of Techno-Commercial Bid. 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding schedule of the
Tender. 
**No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries as specified above 
5. All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 10,00,000/- (Indian Rupees
Ten lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPA RATE
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THR OUGH
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF
OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE
E-TENDERING PORTAL.
6. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder
from the e- Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under  e-tendering
process.  The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/.  The
use of  Digital  Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is  mandatory  for  e-t endering
activities.  Accordingly,  bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering.  Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key
from agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The  e - T e n d e r  P o r t a l  a l s o  h a s  t h e  u s e r
manuals with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation  in the  bidding process.
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted
ONLY at the e- Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/
7. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders:
Qualifying Requirements are enclosed at Annexure-A to IFB. 
 NTPC1*(/ reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
withoutassigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / in tending Bidder shall 
have anyclaim arising out of such action.
 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in t his tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Or der 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids."
 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidde r is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (evenif 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of creditor 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects.
 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to anothe r is not permissible.
 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents,
which may be downloaded from e-Tender website (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/).
 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of  Bid shall not 
construe that bidder is considered qualified..
 Address for communication:
Sh. Maheshwra Nand, Sr. Manager (CS)/ Sh. Anuj Aron, AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
e-mail: maheshwranand@ntpc.co.in, anujaron@ntpc.co.in
Tel No. 0120-4946563/ 0120-4946517
Annexure-A to IFB 
 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in section Instructi ons to Bidder (ITB), the 
Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated here under: 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria:  
 
The bidder should have completed the consultancy assignment of, Preparation 
of Detailed Project Report (DPR)  for a Jetty or Jetty-less sys tem or Port for 
handling Liquified Chemicals at sub-zero temperature and with a  handling 
capacity not less than Two (2) Million Tonnes Per Annum (MTPA) during the 
last Ten (10) years prior to the date of techno commercial bid opening.  
 
The DPR of reference project(s) should have been completed befo re the date 
of techno commercial bid opening and a work completion certific ate from the 
client needs to be submitted.  
 
Notes for Cl. 1.0 Technical Criteria:  
 
i. The work carried out by the bidder’s group company, holding company, or 
subsidiary company shall also be considered as the bidder’s exp erience in 
meeting the QR. In such a case, Bidder shall furnish an Underta king jointly 
executed by the firm qualified as per clause 1.0 and the Bidder  along with its 
bid for complete performance of the contract jointly and severally as per format 
enclosed in the bid document fai ling which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be 
rejected.  
ii. The bidder should be a registered company under the law of India  
iii. Bidder shall submit letter of award, work completion certi ficate(s) and other 
supporting documents, clearly specifying details of the scope, project capacity, 
etc.  
iv. DPR for upgradation of jetty or berth within an existing po rt will NOT be 
considered. However, DPR for construction of new jetty or berth  within an 
existing port will be considered.  
v. Bidder who has executed FEED o r Detailed Engineering can als o be 
considered as having executed DPR upon submission of relevant documents. 
vi. Reference projects of Techno commercial report or Feasibility report will not 
be considered as DPR.  
 
2.0 Financial criteria: 
 
2.1. The average annual turnover of the bidder should not be less than Rs. 7.8 crore, 
(Rupees Seven crores Eighty Lakhs  only) during the preceding th ree (03) 
financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening.  
 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover  criteria, 
stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be requi red to meet 
the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that th e Net Worth of 
such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financ ial year is at 
least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the bidder would be required to furnish along  with the bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by th e Holding 
Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for th e execution of 
the Contract by the Bidder in case of an award.  
 
2.2. Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should 
not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid-up share capital. 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet 
the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/ 
or Holding Company and/or Subsid iaries of its Holding companies  wherever 
applicable, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/ or Holding 
Company and/ or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in a c ombined 
manner should not be less than 100 % (hundred percent) of their total paid-up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% 
(seventy-five percent) of their respective paid-up share capitals.  
 
Net worth in a combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1,  X2, X3 
are individual Net worth which sh ould not be less than 75% of t he respective 
paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals.  
 
2.3. In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited fina ncial statements on a 
standalone entity basis, the una udited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes 
the following documents on the substantiation of its qualification:  
 
a. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company.  
 
b. Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per  the format 
enclosed in the bidding document s, stating that the unaudited u nconsolidated 
financial statements form part of  the consolidated financial st atement of the 
Holding Company. 
 In case, where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of 
techno commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified 
by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case 
the Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practic ing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited res ult of three 
consecutive financial years prec eding the last financial year s hall be 
considered for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a cert ificate would be 
required from the CEO/ CFO as per the format enclosed in the bi dding 
documents stating that the financial results of the company are under audit as 
on techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from a pra cticing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
Notes for Clause 2.0  
a. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but do not include reserves credited out of the revalua tion of the 
assets, write-back of depreciat ion provision, and amalgamation.  Further, any 
debit balance of the Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to 
the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus.  
b. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.  
c. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning as cribed to 
them as per the Companies Act of India.  
 d. For the value of the annual turnover indicated in foreign c urrency, the 
exchange rates as on seven (7) days prior to the date of techno- 
commercial bid opening shall be used.  
e. ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, 
are in a position to:  
i. exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise  
or  
ii. appoint more than fifty percent of members of the Board of Directors in the 
other enterprise.  
 
The meaning of Holding/Subsidiary/Group Company mentioned above shall be applicable 
for Clause 1.0 also. 