 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
Engaging Consultant for Preparation of DPR for Green Hydrogen Hub 
at Pudimadaka, Andhra Pradesh. 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: 2026_NTPC_107916_1      Dated: 07.05.2026 
Bidding Document No.:CS-9590-737A-9  
 
1. NTPC invites online bids on behalf of NTPC Green Energy limi ted (NGEL) at NTPC e-
procurement portal of NIC at website https://eprocurentpc.nic.i n/ on Single Stage Two 
Envelope Bidding Basis  (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: 
Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly 
mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2. SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The brief scope of work of the s ubject tender inter alia includ es “Preparing a Detailed 
Project Report that would cover all the facilities linked to th e hub such as the Electrical 
Transmission system from CTU su bstation to hub, Gas Insulated S ubstation (GIS), 
Green Chemical Plants, Desalination and Water Treatment Plant, Effluent Treatment 
Plant, Captive jetty based port, pi peline for GH / derivatives and for CO2, Civil 
Infrastructures, Chemicals storage, etc. including the financials”. 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the  Vol-II,TOR of Bidding 
Document No. CS-9590-737A-9 
 
3. NGEL intends to finance the subject package through own reso urces. 
 
4. Dates for Bid Submission and Opening shall be as per the following schedule: 
 
Issuance of IFB 07.05.2026 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time 14.05.2026 fom 1100 hrs (IST) 
On Ms Team, Meeting Link shall be 
shared separately. 
last date for submission of queries 15.05.2026 up to 1800 Hrs. (IST) 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
28.05.2026 up to 1300 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Techno– 
Commercial bid 
28.05.2026 at 1600 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Price bid Shall be intimated after o pening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by th e Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified above. 
 
5. All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount o f INR 10,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Ten lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. 
 
Bidders are informed that since the QCBS mode of evaluation is being adopted for this 
tender, MSE benefits under the Public Procurement Policy (PPP) 2012—except for 
exemption from bid security—shall not be applicable for this work. 
 
6. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR): 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I. 
 
7. Employer reserves the right to  reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for 
Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case n o Bidder / intending 
Bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
8. 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate i n this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisi ons issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids." 
 
9. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with I ndia’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to  bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has 
extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development 
projects. 
 
10. Detailed specification, sc ope of work/ToR and terms & condi tions are given in the 
Bidding Documents, which may  be downloaded from e-Tender websit e 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/). 
 
11. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding  Documents and /or submissio n of Bid shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified. 
 
12. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to an other is not permissible. 
 
13. Address for communication: 
Sonam Kumari, Sr. Manager (CS)/ Sh. Amit Kumar, DGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
e-mail: sonamkumari@ntpc.co.in, amitk@ntpc.co.in   
Tel No. 01204946577/ 01204946537 
Appendix-I of IFB:QR 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QR) for “Engaging Consultant for Preparation of DPR for 
Green Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka, AP” 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and Clause 2.0. 
1.0 Technical Criteria 
a) The Bidder should have prepared the Detailed Project Report (DPR)/ Feasibility Report/
Engineering Design/ FEED/ Pre-FEED/Technical Due Diligence Report for:
Hydrogen Hubs (minimum 300 TPD of Hydrogen production) 
OR   
Chemical Hub (minimum 1500 TPD production capacity)  
 OR  
Industrial Estates (minimum 1000 acre)  
 OR   
Special Economic Zones (minimum 1000 acre)    
OR  
Special Investment Zones (minimum 1000 acre)   
OR  
Area Development Plans (minimum 1000 acre), prior to the date o f techno-commercial Bid 
opening.  
And 
b) The aforesaid consultancy services at para 1(a) should have included the infrastructure
components as below:
i. Electrical distribution network
AND
ii. Roads with storm water drainage.
Notes for Clause 1.0: 
a. i. FEED: Front End Engineering & Design  ii. Pre-FEED: Preliminary FEED (shall include
Basic Engineering and Design) iii. Technical Due Diligence Report: In depth review and gap
analysis of all documents like PPA, Contracts, LoAs, Reports for lenders.
b. In case the Bidder does not satisfy the technical criteria on i ts own then the te chnical
credentials 
of Bidder’s group company or holding company or sub sidiary company(ies) shall
also 
be considered as the technical credentials in meeting the technical criteria (Clause 1.0).
In such a case, the Bidder shall furnish an undertaking jointly executed by the company (having
relevant 
experience) and the Bid der along with its bid for complete performance jointly and
severally as per the format enclosed in the tender document, fa iling which the Bidder’s bid i s
liable to be rejected.
2.0 Financial
 Criteria  
2.1  The average annual turnover of the bidder should not be less than Rs. 6.2 Crore (Rs Six 
Crore Twenty Lakhs only) during the preceding three (03) financial years as on date of 
techno-commercial bid opening.  
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria,  stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated tu rnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as o n the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required  to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial Bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding  
  
Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, a s per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for 
the execution of the Contract by the Bidder, in case of award.  
  
2.2  Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the precedin g financial year should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of Bidder’s paid-up share capital. In case the Bidder does not 
satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on 
the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and /or Subsidiaries of its 
Holding companies wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding C ompany, in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. 
However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 7 5% (seventy five percent) of 
their respective paid-up share capitals.  
  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:   
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1,  X2, X3 are individual 
Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective p aid up share capitals and 
Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
  
 2.3   In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the  Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents on substantiation 
of its qualification:  
a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.  
b) Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolid ated financial statements 
form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company.  
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
a practicing Chartered Accountant  certifying its financial para meters, the audited result of 
three consecutive financial year s preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating tha t the financial results of the 
company are under audit as on techno-commercial bid opening   a nd the Certificate from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
Notes for Clause 2.0 
  
a) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write-b ack of depreciation provision, 
and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of the Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from 
reserves and surplus.   
b) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.   
c) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary ” shall have the meaning ascri bed to them as per the 
Companies Act of India.   
d) Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a position 
to:  
i. exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise; or ii. appoint more 
than fifty percent of members of Board of Directors in the other enterprise.  
  
  
The meaning of Holding/Subsidiary/Group Company mentioned above shall be applicable 
for Clause 1 also.  
e) For the annual turnover indicated in foreign currency, the e xchange rate as on seven (7) 
days prior to the date of Techno-commercial Bid opening shall be used.  