NTPC Limited 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise)
  BIDDING DOUMENTS 
 FOR  
PROCUREMENT OF  FIRE TENDERS FOR NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN HUB 
AT PUDIMADAKA, ANAKAPALLI, AP 
Bid Document No.- 9900324833
SECT
ION--I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 

SECTION--I
INVITATION FOR BIDS/NOTICE INVITING TENDER (IFB/NIT)
'Class-I and Class-II local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Prefe rence to Make in I ndia), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DP IIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of 
the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids."
1.0 NTPC LTD. on behalf of NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL) invites online bidso nSINGLE 
STAGE TWO ENVELOPE BIDDINGbasis from Eligible bidders for aforesaid Package as per 
the Scope of Work briefly mentioned herein after.
1.0a NGEL intends to finance the subject package through a Mix of Debt and Equity
1.1 
2.0
The tender is invited under e-tendering Portal i.e. GePNIC portal having website 
  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in
BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK (GePNIC_ID: 2026_NTPC_107966_1) 
2.1 BID NO 9900324833
2.2 Description of work Procurement of Fire Te nders for NGEL Green 
Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka, Anakapalli, AP
2.3 a Name of Employer NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL)
2.3 b Source of NIT NTPC Limited, Engineering Office Complex,
, NOIDA
2.4 Purchase Classification Supply
2.4 a Location of supply NGEL Green Hydrogen Hub Pudimadaka,
Anakapalli,AP
2.5 Issuance of IFB/NIT 0.05.2026
2.6 Documents 
Download Date 
From 0.05.2026
2.6 a Last Date of receipt of 
queries from prospective 
bidders
1.05.2026
2.6 b Pre-Bid Conference date 
&t i m e
Not Applicable
2.6 c Last Date and Time for 
Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and 
Price)
Up to 1500 hrs (IST) on 25.05.2026
2.7 Techno-Commercial Bid 
Opening Date & Time
26.05.2026 at 1500 hrs (IST)
2.8 Price Bid Opening Date & 
Time
Shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after 
evaluation of Techno -Commercial Bid through 
GePNIC Portal
2.9 Tender Fee Not Applicable
2.10 EMD/ Bid Security INR 5,00,000.00 (Indian Rupees Five Lakhs 
only )
EMD exemption is applicable in the subject 
NIT for MSE Registered Bidders under 
UDYAM Only.
2.11 INTEGRITY PACT (To be 
submitted online only) 
Not Applicable.  
2.12 Evaluation Evaluation: Item wise 
Splitting: Applicable 
 
The Bidder has to quote  
a.) Basic rate inclusive of all charges ( P&F, 
Freight+ Insurance etc.) +  
b.) GST rate for each item 
in the BOQ Price bid .at GePNIC portal . 
 
2.13 MSE Benefits in Award & 
EMD 
Applicable. 
Benefits under PPP 2012 for MSEs are 
applicable only for (a) Goods produced and (b) 
Services provided by MSEs. In this regard, OM 
dated 9.11.2016 and its subsequent 
amendment / clarifications issued by MSME 
from time to time regarding definition of Goods 
and Services may be referred. 
  
MSE benefits shall not be applicable to 
Trader/Dealer of Goods. Further, MSE benefits 
shall also not be applicable for Works Contracts. 
 
Micro and Small Ente rprises (MSEs) having 
Latest Udyam Registration only for Goods 
produced and Services rendered shall only 
be eligible for MSE benefits. 
 
In case of an upward change in terms of 
investment in plant and machinery or equipment 
or turnover or both, and consequent re-
classification, an enterprise shall continue to 
avail of all nontax benefits of the category (micro 
or small or medium) it was in before the re-
classification, for a period of three years from the 
date of such upward change.  
The benefits to the participating Service 
Providers under PPP 2012 shall be applicable 
irrespective of product (Goods / Services) 
categories for which bidder is registered as 
MSE. 
 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) who are holding valid Udyam 
Registration and are manufacturer of the offered Product or Ser vice 
(Primary Product / Service -- in case of bunch bid with total value wise 
evaluation) and give specific confirmation to this effect at th e time of bid 
submission and whose credentials are validated online through U dyam 
Registration website of Ministry of MSME and also through suppo rting 
document uploaded during bidding process and validated by the B uyer. 
Therefore, for availing exemption Benefit in Award, Bidders are requested 
to submit only “LATEST UDYAM REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE”.  
Other MSE related documents like “Udyog Aadhar Memorandum (UAM) or 
“NSIC certificate” etc. or any other certificate issued by Ministry of Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises as per MSMED Act 2006, for goods 
produced and services rendered will not be considered as a MSE 
exemption certificate. 
2.14 Make in India Policy APPLICABLE (For details refer ITB) Only 
'Class-I and Class-II local suppliers’ are eligible 
to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendment s/ revisions issued 
by DPIIT. The bidders may appraise themselves 
of the relevant provisions of bidding documents 
in this regard before submission of their bids. 
2.15 Preference to Local 
Suppliers 
Only Class-I and Class-II Local Suppliers are 
eligible to participate in this tender. Bids of Non- 
Local Suppliers or Class-II Local Supplier , if 
received, shall be outrightly rejected. 
 
Purchase preference shall be given to 'Class-I 
local supplier'. 
 
Minimum 50% Local Content  required for 
qualifying as Class-I Local Supplier. 
2.16  Delivery Period 08 months.  
2.17 PDI(Pre dispatch 
Inspection) 
Applicable 
2.18 Contract Performance 
Guarantee (CPG/PBG) 
Contract Performance shall be 5 %  of the total 
Purchase Value  as awarded to Bidder  
2.19 Splitting of quantity (MSE) Allowed. 
2.20 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of as indicated in 
IFB/GePNIC portal.  
 
While submitting the bid for the subject work, please upload EM D BG 
online along with your offer. Hard copy of original EMD BG shal l reach 
NTPC office at the address mentioned at para 5.0( Address for 
communication) , prior to the last date & time of bid submission 
 
The bid security may be submitted in the form of a  
bank guarantee from any of the banks mentioned in the bidding d ocuments 
or an Insurance Surety Bond from an Insurer as per guidelines i ssued by 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHA LL BE REJECTED BY THE 
EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE.  
2.22 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified 
in the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tende r only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bid ding 
Documents. Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) ha ving specified 
Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which 
shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only i f the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. However, the said  requirement 
of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of 
credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
3.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QRs) FOR BIDDERS:  
 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instru ctions to Bidder 
(ITB), the Bidder should also m eet the qualifying requirements stipulated 
hereunder in clause 1.0 and clause 2.0 as below: 
 1.1 TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
 1.1 The bidder should be a manufactu rer or fabricator of ‘Water Fir e Tender or 
Foam Fire Tender or Dry Chemical Powder (DCP) Fire tender or Multipurpose 
Fire tender’.  
1.2 The bidder should have executed supply of any type of Fire Tender(s) within last 
7 years prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening in any of following 
manner : 
(i) One (1) order having executed value not less than Rs. 3.9 Crore 
OR 
(ii) Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 2.4 Crore each. 
OR 
(iii) Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 2.0 Crore each. 
 
 
                    Notes for Technical Criteria: 
 (I)The work carried out by the bidder’s group company, holding company, or 
subsidiary company shall also be considered as the bidder’s experience in meeting 
the QR. In such a case, Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking joi ntly executed by the 
firm qualified a s  p e r  c l a u s e  1.0 and the Bidder along with its bid for complete 
performance of the contract jointly and severally as per format  enclosed in the bid 
document failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected.  
 (ii)The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder s hould have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contra ct is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
 (iii) In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed till the date of 
Techno-commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered 
acceptable 
 (iv) R e f e r e n c e  w o r k  e x e c u t e d  b y  t h e  b i d d e r  a s  a  s u b - c o n t r a c t o r  m a y  also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor i s duly certified by 
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the subcontracto r in support of 
qualifying requirements 
 (v) The bidder should be a registered company  in India under the Company Act 
2013 as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening 
 (vi) Bidder shall submit letter of award or purchase order, inspect ion report / 
material dispatch clearance cert ificate and other supporting do cuments, clearly 
specifying details of the supplied Tender.  
 (vii) For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, ba sic amount 
only shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should 
provide the break-up of basic value and taxes. 
 2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA  
 Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
 2.1 The average annual turnover of the bidder should not be les s than Rs. 4.9 
crore, (INR Four crore and ninety lakhs only) during the preceding three (03) 
financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet  the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is a t least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
bidder would be required to furnish along with the bid, a Letter of Undertaking from 
the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as 
per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging uncondit ional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case 
of an award. 
 
 2.2 The Net Worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (o ne hundred 
percent) of the Bidder’s paid up share capital as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year. In case the Bidder  does not satisfy the Net wor th criteria on its 
own, it can meet the requirement of Net Worth based on the stre ngth of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Com pany and/or Subsidiaries of i ts Holding 
Company wherever applicable. In s uch a case, however the Net Wo rth of the 
Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of 
the Holding company, in a combined manner should not be less than 100% (one 
hundred percent) of their total paid-up share capital. However, individually, their 
Net Worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective 
paid-up share capital. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3 ) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% (one hund red 
percent) where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net Worth which should not be less than 
75% (seventy-five percent) of the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, 
Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
 2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on a 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder can be considered acceptab le provided the Bidder further  furnishes the 
following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
 
b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as pe r the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the un-audited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the 
Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date 
of opening of the Techno commercial bid are not available, cert ification of 
financial statements from a pract ising Chartered Accountant sha ll also be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
a practising Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited 
results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall 
be considered for evaluating  the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are  under audit as 
on the date of Techno commercial bid opening and the Certificat e from the 
practising Chartered Accountant c ertifying the financial parame ters is not 
available 
                  Notes for Financial Criteria: 
 (i) Net Worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of assets, 
write back of depreciation provisions and amalgamation. Further , any debit 
balance of the Profit & Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from Reserves & Surplus. 
 (ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 (iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meani ng 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act 2013. 
 (iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on 
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno- Commercial bid opening shall 
be used 
IMPORTANT GUIDELINES REGARDING TENDER: 
1. Only 'Class-I and Class-II local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined 
in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 
and its subsequent amendments/ rev isions issued by DPIIT. The b idders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard bef ore 
submission of their bids.  
 
2. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. Howe ver, the said 
requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
3. Employer reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdr aw the Invitation for 
Bids/NIT without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action.  
 
4. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may 
be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the GePNIC Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/). The Bidder would be required to register on the GeM 
Portal. 
 
5. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security &  Power of Attorney. Bid Security and 
Power of Attorney shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separ ately in physical form by 
the stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given below.  
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security & power of attorney as mentioned 
above shall be rejected by the employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened.  
 
Note: No hard copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
1. Address for communication:  
DGM (CS) / AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA   
Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: 0120 4946581, 4946535  
E-mail: kailashkumawat@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or  
www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or  
www.ntpc.co.in 
 
2. Registered Office  
NTPC Limited  
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE  
Complex, 7, Institutional Area,  
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 10003  
Corporate Identification Number:  
        L40101DL1975GOI007966. Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
  