 
Bid Number: 
GEM/2026/B/7523700
Dated: 
20-05-2026
Bid Corrigendum
GEM/2026/B/7523700-C3
Following terms and conditions supersede all existing “Buyer added Bid Specific Terms and conditions” given in
the bid document or any previous corrigendum. Prospective bidders are advised to bid as per following Terms
and Conditions:
Buyer Added Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions
1
. 
Buyer Added text based ATC clauses
Sl.
Buyer Added Bid 
Specific Additional Terms & Conditions
01.
Bid Corrigendum-I Published
Note: Participation in this tender is strictly by 
invitation as per enlistm
ent under CNG-01: Enlistment of agencies for 
conducting Geotechnical 
Investigation Works.
Any bid submitted by an uninvited bidder will be 
treated as unsolicite
d and rejected during technical evaluation.
02.
All terms and condition 
& Technical speciﬁcation speciﬁed in Buyer Added Bid S
pecific ATC 
(Buyer Added text-based ATC clauses & Buyer uploaded ATC docum
ent) must 
be complied by the Bidder. In case of any deviation OR on non-compli
ance is 
noted in the submitted BID to any of the Speciﬁcation, terms and condit
ions 
speciﬁed in the Buyer Added Bid Speciﬁc ATC (Buyer Added text-based AT
C 
clauses & Buyer uploaded ATC document) such BID shall be summarily 
reject
ed.
03.
GEM GTC shall be 
integral part of purchase order.
In case of any 
contradiction between technical Specifications mentioned in GEM
BID & 
Buyer Added Bid Specific ATC (Buyer Added text-based ATC clauses & Bu
yer 
uploaded ATC document), Technical parameters specified in Buyer Added Bi
d 
Specific ATC (Buyer Added text-based ATC clauses & Buyer uploaded ATC 
doc
ument) shall prevail in following order:
a)
       
Buyer Added text-based ATC clauses
b)
       
Buyer uploaded ATC document
04.
Complete Tender 
Documents, are attached at -
Buyer uploaded ATC document Click here to view the file
.
.
2
. 
Buyer uploaded ATC document 
Click here to view the file
.
1 / 2
Disclaimer
The Additional Terms and Conditions (ATC) have been incorporated by the Buyer after approval of their
Competent Authority. The Buyer ,is solely responsible for the impact of these clauses on the bidding process, its
outcome, and consequences thereof including any restriction arising in the bidding process due to these ATCs
and including the modification of technical specifications and / or terms and conditions governing the bid.All
representations / grievances pertaining to the ATC clauses shall be raised with the buyer organization directly
and not with GeM.If any of the clause(s) is/are incorporated by the Buyer regarding the following, the bid &
resultant contract shall be treated as null & void. Further, GeM reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to cancel
the bid forthwith, without issuance of any prior notice or intimation :-
1
. 
Publishing Custom / BOQ bids for items for which regular GeM categories are available (unless such
Custom / BOQ item is bunched with the major regular product Category Item).
2
. 
Mandating procurement of / from specific Brand / Make / Model / Manufacturer / Dealer except in case of
Single Bid / Proprietary Article Certificate (PAC) Buying.
3
. 
Inclusion of disqualification criteria related to suspension of seller / service provider, where such
suspension period has already expired.
4
. 
Mandating submission of documents in physical form as a pre-requisite to qualify bidders.
5
. 
Publishing bids on GeM for procurement of works.
6
. 
Procurement of Goods by creating a Service bid on GeM & vice-versa.
7
. 
Seeking sample with bid or approval of samples during bid evaluation process. However, trial / sample, as
the case may be, shall be permitted in cases where trial / sample are allowed as per approved and
published procurement policy of the Buyers’ controlling 
Ministry / Department / State / Public Sector
Enterprises Headquarters. If there is any violation of trial / sample clause with regard to approved policy
of the Buyers’ Ministry / Department / State / Public Sector Enterprises Headquarters, then this is to be
determined and redressed by the concerned Buyer Organisation only.
8
. 
Seeking experience from specific organization / department / institute only or from foreign / export
experience.
9
. 
Creating bid for items from incorrect categories.
10
. 
Reference of conditions published on any external site or reference to external documents/clauses.
11
. 
Asking for any Tender fee / Bid Participation fee, as the case may be.
12
. 
Buyer added ATC Clauses which are in contravention of clauses defined in bid detail section, including
specifications, EMD Detail, ePBG Detail and MII and MSE Purchase Preference sections of the bid, unless
otherwise allowed by the applicable GeM GTC.
13
. 
Any ATC clause in contravention with GeM GTC Clause 4 (xiii) (h) will be invalid. In case of multiple L1
bidders against a service bid, the buyer shall place the Contract by selection of a bidder amongst the L-1
bidders through a Random Algorithm executed by GeM system.
14
. 
In a category based bid, adding additional items, through buyer added, additional scope of work/
additional terms and conditions/or any other document. If buyer needs more items along with the main
item, the same must be added through bunching category based items or by bunching custom catalogues
or bunching a BoQ with the main category based item, the same must not be done through ATC or Scope
of Work.
Further, if any seller has any objection/grievance against these additional clauses or otherwise on any aspect of
this bid, they can raise their representation against the same by using the Representation window provided in
the bid details field in Seller dashboard after logging in as a seller. Buyer is duty bound to reply to all such
representations and would not be allowed to open bids if he fails to reply to such representations.
*This document shall overwrite all previous versions of Bid Specific Additional Terms and Conditions.
This Bid is also governed by the General Terms and Conditions
2 / 2