Annexure- B  
Page 1 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited  
(A Govt. of India enterprise) 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)  
for Lifting of Pond Ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis from 
NTPC-Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Plant – June’26 to May’27 
EOI No. : 01 / KHSTPS / POND ASH / 2026   Date: 18.05.2026 
NTPC-Kahalgaon invites Expression of Interest (EoI)  from interested Ash Users for lifting of Pond 
Ash, for one year duration, on  ‘free of cost’ , ‘ First come First Served ’ and ‘ as is where is ’ basis 
from NTPC-Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Plant, Near Satkar Chowk,  PO-Kahalgaon, Bhagalpur, 
Bihar-813214. Lifting and Transportation of the ash  shall be the responsibility of the interested Ash 
User.  
 
 
Interested parties are requested to submit their re quirement(s) in the specified standard format to 
audkhstps@ntpc.co.in   by 17:00 hrs. of 31.05.2026.  
‘General Information’ and ‘ Standard format for application’  for Expression of Interest have been 
uploaded on  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in.   
Registered Office: NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, I nstitutional Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi -
110003. www.ntpc.co.in, CIN : L40101DL1975GOI007966  
Leading the Power Sector 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to Apply 
Annexure- B  
Page 2 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
for 
 
Issue of Pond Ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from NTPC Kahalgaon 
 
Ref No. EOI No. : 01 / KHSTPS / POND ASH / 2026 Dat e: 18.05.2026 
 
 
This expression of interest (EOI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information. 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI. 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure- B  
Page 3 of 9 
 
 
N.B. 
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled i n wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder, on each page and shal l be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
Annexure- B  
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NTPC Kahalgaon : 
NTPC Kahalgaon, located at Bhagalpur (Bihar) having  a total installed capacity of 2340 MW, is 
engaged in the                business of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the Pond ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant 
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of Pond ash as resource material, NTPC 
Kahalgaon intends to issue some of its Pond Ash on free of cost and on first come first served basis, 
with transportation  cost being borne by the Bidders. 
To facilitate this, NTPC Kahalgaon invites Expressi ons of Interest for above, for a period of 01 
(One) year, from its 1500 MW Stage-02 units and 840  MW Stage-01 units . Further details 
regarding  this Expression of Interest (EOI) are as follow: 
 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Kahalgaon invites Expression of Interest (EOI)  for above, from interested Bidders, for 
utilization of Pond Ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the prescribed 
formats (Part-2 & Part-3) . 
Total quantity of Pond Ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location Total 
Quantity 
offered for 
EoI  
Period of Supply    Contact Person / 
 Designation / Mobile   No.  
NTPC KAHALGAON 
THERMAL POWER 
STATION, 
Address- Near Satkar Chowk, 
Bhagalpur, Bihar -813214  
 
50.00 Lakh  MT  
       01 year 
 
(June’26 to May’27 ) 
1. Shri Jitendra Tripathi, 
AGM (AUD), 
9425823496  
2. Shri S N Mondal, DGM 
(AUD), 9434078697  
 
How to apply 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving Pond ash f rom NTPC Kahalgaon as per the terms and 
conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression  of Interest along with specified documents 
and duly filled in enclosed “ Part 2 : Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “ Part 3 : 
Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder” to the E – M ail address audkhstps@ntpc.co.in  on or 
before 17:00 hrs. of                                                    31st   May 2026. 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary proof as 
applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certifie d by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
Annexure- B  
Page 5 of 9 
 
 
Allocation of Pond Ash Quantity: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI, Pond Ash shall be allocated to various bidders 
free of cost and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity is exhausted. 
However, collecting from NTPC`s issue location and transportation thereafter, will be in the scope 
of the bidder only. 
 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation agains t both the Auction Process and this EoI, 
then the Ash quantity allocated against this EoI sh all be issued to that Bidder, only after the 
Bidder completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process 
 
 
Daily allocation of Pond Ash shall be done as given below: 
 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly re quisition containing a list of their day wise 
requested quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month.  
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated q uantity and availability. NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous 
month.  
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors ) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly.  
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). D ecision of Engineer in Charge (EIC)- 
NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard.  
 
Pond Ash shall be issued from the designated Ash dy ke lagoons / Other Suitable Locations as 
decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the NTPC Kahalgaon, on ‘ as is where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refun dable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation  of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. 
This SD will be kept for following purposes: 
1. To ensure commitment of the Ash recipient(s) for li fting allocated Ash. An amount at the rate 
of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited.  
2. To cover for the cost of damage(s), if any, caused by the Ash recipient or its agent / 
representative during the lifting of Pond ash.  
3. To cover the cost of arrangements to be made by NTP C, which otherwise are in the scope of 
Ash recipient as per Terms and conditions of LoA / LoI. NTPC reserves right to suspend / 
cancel allocation of Ash in case the cost of arrangements to be made exceeds the SD.  
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any, as 
per any or all of the above 03 conditions. This adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 
days of end of the contract period or of lifting of entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
Annexure- B  
Page 6 of 9 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
 
    EOI for Issue of Pond Ash from NTPC Kahalgaon Thermal Power Station 
 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
 
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm) 
 
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Nature of Business:  
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year 
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling Pond Ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Annexure- B  
Page 7 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No. 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
Pond Ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
 
Figures: 
 
 
Words: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond Ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No). 
 
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport Pond Ash if issued. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF & CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the Pond ash, if issued. 
SN Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
Annexure- B  
Page 8 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
11 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of    
 
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
Signature: 
(Authorized Representative) 
Name: 
Designation: 
Annexure- B  
Page 9 of 9 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
 
UNDERTAKING 
 
I / We (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EOI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EOI including those contained 
in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the 
terms and conditions of the EOI including all corri gendum/addendum, if any. In the 
event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EOI document shall be considered 
as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as 
and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, 
nor have been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us : 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plan t entry and exit, Weighment, 
Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained wh ile inside the Plant, Mobilization 
of adequate number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement 
conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out 
the above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutor y regulations including those 
regarding safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill 
all applicable statutory requirements for, and in c onnection with the execution of the 
contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area 
as directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and  safe execution of the collection / 
lifting and utilization of Pond Ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / 
Subsidiaries from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regula tions/ Guidelines / laws during the 
course of execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or 
commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued b y TPP for only Ash Utilization 
Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on 
Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes 
/ Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of  security deposit amount, in case I / 
we fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars  furnished by us in this EOI are true 
and authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I  / we understand and accept that 
if at any stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are 
liable for disqualification from this EOI and also liable for any other penal action that 
may arise due to the above. 
Annexure- B  
Page 10 of 9 
 
 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1.  This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for pond ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. . I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the EoI. NTPC will, 
in no case be responsible or liable for these costs , regardless of the conduct or outcome of the 
assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to Railways, haulage charges and other charges 
as applicable in case of transportation by rail in Environment friendly manner, will be in my / our scope. 
Station may consider part / full facilitation for l ifting of pond ash thru rail – mode / road cum rail  mode, 
subject to feasibility and cost economics. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, till the time available offered quantity is 
exhausted, to the parties who have submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect. Receipt 
of request will be treated as received on receipt of all specified documents only. 
5.  Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along 
with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Secur ity Deposit will be refundable 
as per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance 
along with requisite security deposit and other specified documents required by the 
respective station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the dry fly 
ash allocation to me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated Pond ash through auction process also from same 
Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our  part to collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Name ………………………………  
……………………………………… 
Place: ……………………. Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
Name of the Company: …….……. 
…………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
…………………………………….…. 
Company Seal: …..………………… 
………….…………………………….. 
Annexure- B  
Page 11 of 9 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
 
 
1. Pond Ash ash shall be issued from the Ash Dyke or other location as decided 
by EIC to the Successful Bidders (or their authorized representatives as may be 
agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering Operational and Safety issues of 
Ash Dyke. 
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustain ability Guidelines etc 
and carry out their activities in full compliance with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from 
TPP. 
4. Bidders eligible for lifting ash shall apply for pe rmission for the equipment 
and machinery that they propose to deploy and submit the same to EIC along 
with specified documents like registration, license , insurance etc, who shall 
verify the same and issue permission. Quantum and c apacity of such 
equipment and machinery shall be commensurate with the quantity of ash 
allocated.  
5. Bidders shall mobilize adequate manpower and machinery within 15 days of 
issue of communication from the EIC. However, depending upon operational 
convenience and dyke safety etc. EIC can schedule t he lifting of ash from 
different areas by different agencies, which shall be binding upon the 
agencies. The schedules and deployment may be worked out / altered based 
on periodic meetings between concerned stakeholders. 
6. Mobilized equipment shall be in healthy condition a nd amenable for safe 
operation. 
 
7. In case, Pond ash offtake falls below 75% of (the contracted or adjusted quantity, whichever 
is lower), during any three consecutive months on cumulative basis, Owner reserves the right 
to terminate the contract by giving 15 days’ notice in writing of their intentions to do so and 
in such an event the buyer shall not be entitled to any compensation from the Owner.  
8. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc . EIC can schedule or 
reschedule the lifting of ash from Ash dyke by different agencies, which shall 
be binding upon the Successful Bidders. Successful Bidders shall start 
collecting the Ash as per their respective allocati on as per the schedule 
intimated by the EIC. 
9. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders and 
verifiable by TPP. 
10. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions rangin g from fine to 
termination of contract / agreement / issue of Pond Ash as decided by EIC. 
11. General facilitating measures for lifting of Ash vi z. Common Approach / 
ramp, general area fugitive dust suppression, etc s hall be in the scope of 
NTPC. However, job specific facilitation viz. appro ach / ramp to specific 
allocated area and local fugitive dust suppression shall be in the scope of the 
recipient agency. Quantity will be derived on minim um of the two 
measurements, one by the weigh bridge at loading en d of NTPC-Kahalgaon 
and the other as certified by Department of Legal M etrology of State 
Government on Ash transportation route or at unloading end. Weighment of 
Ash at weighbridge on transportation route or at unloading end and related 
consequent charges shall be in the scope of Bidder’s . 
 
12. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Bidder(s). 
Annexure- B  
Page 12 of 9 
 
 
 
13. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance  etc. for the vehicles 
deployed shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new 
and / or additional vehicles are deployed) and ther eafter as and when 
demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles shall be in fit condition for 
safe operation. 
14. Online Gate Pass system shall be used for generating Gate Passes for all Pond 
Ash–loaded vehicles. Each pass shall have to carry a unique bar code, which 
must be scanned at Entry, Exit, and unloading point s to ensure smooth and 
accurate tracking of vehicle movement. 
15. The new Gate Pass System (AshTraM App) is implement ed for all Pond Ash 
transportation activities. Vehicle Entry, Exit and unloading operations shall 
have to be conducted through the above app, and mandatory scanning of the 
Gate Pass shall be performed at both Entry and Exit  points within the NTPC 
Kahalgaon Ash Dyke Area. 
 
16. Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of 
requisite value, certifying the complete Utilizatio n of issued Pond Ash, in 
adherence with the provisions of the extant Notification and other applicable 
statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed format, shall be submitted 
on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
17. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that  arises due to non- 
compliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, 
Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the successf ul Bidder or its 
representative / agent, during the course of execut ion and for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful Bidder 
shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity bond 
shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
18. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 
 
 