  
  
Page 1 of 9  
  
 
   Annexure- B 
   (For Dry Fly Ash) 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)    
for  
Fly Ash supply to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) /Local user engaged in ash-based 
products manufacturing, on concessional rates, ‘as is where is’ basis from NTPC MOUDA Super 
Thermal Power Station 
  
Ref No. EOI No. NTPC/MSEs/AU-01/FA /2026                  Date: 18.05.2026 
  
  
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: -  
  
i. Part 1:  General Information.  
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI.   
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder.    
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines.   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
N.B.   
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  
  
Page 2 of 9  
  
     
             Annexure- B 
                   
 
Part 1:  General Information  
General Details about NTPC Mouda:   
 
NTPC Mouda, located at Mouda District Nagpur Maharashtra having a total installed capacity of 
2320 MW, is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power.  
 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner and promote utilization of fly ash as 
resource material, NTPC Mouda has reserved a certain percentage of issuable quantity of fly ash 
separately for supply to micro and small enterprises (MSEs) and local User at concessional rates. 
The supply of fly ash shall be made on “as is where is” basis, with transportation cost being borne 
by the Bidders.  
To facilitate this, NTPC Mouda invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of June_2026 
to March_2027, from its 2 X 500 MW Stage-I units and 2 X 660 MW Stage-II units. Further details 
regarding this Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follow:   
 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST:  
NTPC Mouda invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Bidders, for utilization 
of dry fly ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the prescribed formats 
(Part-2 & Part-3).   
Total quantity of fly ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details given 
hereunder -  
Power Stations / Location   
Total Quantity 
offered for EoI   
Concessional 
Rates Period of Supply  
NTPC  MOUDA  THERMAL 
POWER  
STATION, P. S- Mouda, 
Mouda - Ramtek Road, 
Nagpur, - 441104 (MH)  
     6 LMT   
 
 
Rs. 1 /MT 
(June_2026 to 
March_2027)  
  
  
How to apply  
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving dry fly ash from NTPC MOUDA as per the terms and 
conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents and 
duly filled in enclosed “Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “Part 3:  
Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder” to the E – Mail address aumouda@ntpc.co.in on or before 
17:00 hrs. of 02th June 2026. Contact no.: 9650995299, 9424140894 
  
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”:  
1. MSEs having valid Consent to operate issued by CPCB/SPCBs wherever applicable or valid 
MSE / Udyam registration certificate. 
2. Local User situated within the 100 km radius of the plant, on the basis of a self declaration, 
confirming that the ash will be utilised solely for ecofriendly purpose. 
  
  
Page 3 of 9  
  
 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete.  
 
Allocation of dry fly ash Quantity:  
 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI or on proportionate basis (if response received 
more than EOI offered Quantity), fly ash shall be allocated to various bidders on “as is where 
is, basis till the available offered quantity is exhausted. However, collecting from NTPC`s issue 
location and transportation, thereafter, will be in the scope of the bidder only.  
 
  
Daily allocation of fly ash shall be done as given below:  
 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day wise 
requested quantities for each month. 
2. Lifting Sequence & allocation shall be finalized by NTPC depending upon site specific 
conditions.  
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly.  
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge 
(EIC)NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard.  
  
Dry fly ash shall be issued from the discharge chute of designated ash Silos / Other Suitable 
Locations as decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘ as is 
where is’ basis.  
 
Advance payment:  
 
Allocated quantity of fly ash for the period shall be divided into monthly quantity and amount 
payable based on the quantity for one month is to be deposited in advance (along with all taxes 
and duties as applicable) through NTPC Customer Portal (in NTPC Account) for the quantity of fly 
ash to be lifted in next month. 
 
  
Refundable Security Deposit (SD):  
 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Successful Bidder(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the 
rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited.  
 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This 
adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of 
entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier.   
 
 
  
  
Page 4 of 9  
  
Annexure- B 
    (For Dry Fly Ash) 
    
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI  
                     (On official letter head of the Bidder)  
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents)  
  
EOI for Issue of dry fly ash from NTPC-Mouda Super Thermal Power Plant 
 
Sl. No.  Description  Details  
1  Name of the Bidder   
2.  Status (Company / MSEs / Local user)    
2.1  Consent To Operated issued by CPCB 
/SPCB  
2.2  GST No, (as may be applicable)    
2.3  PAN No. (as may be applicable)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4 
Nature of Business:     
Name of the Product / Service    
Production / Service Capacity per Annum    
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year    
Location and Address of Production / 
Service Facility    
Whether capable of handling dry fly ash in 
an environmentally friendly way as per 
extant regulation / law (Yes / No)  
  
     3  
Registered Address   
Telephone No.    
Mobile No.    
 
  
  
Page 5 of 9  
  
4  
Communication Address    
 
Telephone No.     
Mobile No.     
6  Dry fly ash quantity sought against EoI (both 
in Figures and Words):  
Figures:   
 
Words:  
 
8  Address of the location where Bidder 
proposes to transport fly ash if issued.     
9  
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the dry fly ash, if issued.  
 
 
SN   Avenue Name  Quantity 
Required  
1.      
2.      
3.      
Total    
 
10  
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, 
etc.  
Name of the Authorized Person    
Designation    
Telephone No.    
Mobile No.    
Email Id    
11  Any other relevant information    
  
  
  
Page 6 of 9  
  
  
 
 
  
 For and on behalf of      
  
            
Date:   
Place:  
                          Signature:  
                         (Authorized Representative)   
  
     Name:  
  
       Designation:  
  
  
Page 7 of 9  
  
               Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder 
To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
UNDERTAKING  
  
I / We _________________________________________ (Name of the firm / individual) 
hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI requirements 
and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained in all 
corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the terms 
and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of 
allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered as part and 
parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever 
applicable and required by TPP.  
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor 
have been convicted of violating applicable law.  
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us:  
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, Sequence 
of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization of adequate 
number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement conducive to 
environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out the above as per 
instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC.  
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding 
safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable 
statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the contract.  
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area as 
directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting 
and utilization of Dry Fly ash.  
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries 
from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any 
applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and 
for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us or my / our 
representatives / agents.  
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization Avenues 
as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly 
basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes / Avenues as 
identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification.  
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / we fail 
to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract conditions 
mentioned in LOA /LOI.  
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true and 
authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any 
stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for 
disqualification from this EoI and also liable for any other penal action that may arise due 
to the above. 
 
 
  
  
Page 8 of 9  
  
 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that:  
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for dry fly ash tie-up/ agreement.  
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the EoI. 
NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct or 
outcome of the assessment / evaluation process.  
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to Railways, haulage charges and 
other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in Environment friendly 
manner, will be in my / our scope. While I / we understand that the Station may at its 
discretion, consider part / full facilitation for lifting of dry fly ash thru rail – mode / road cum 
rail mode, subject to feasibility and cost economics, I / we also understand that I /we shall 
have no claim whatsoever, in this regard.  
4. Allocation will be done on the time of receipt of responses to EoI Based on the time of 
receipt of responses to EoI or on proportionate basis (if  response received more than 
EOI offered Quantity) to the parties who have submitted all requisite documents, complete 
in all respect within the stipulated time of submission of interest. Receipt of request will be 
treated as received on receipt of all specified documents only.  
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as per the 
conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along with requisite 
security deposit and other specified documents required by the respective station within 
stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the dry fly ash allocation to me / us.  
 
Thanking you,  
  
(Signature of authorized person)  
  
Date ……./ ……../ ……….       Name ………………………………   
Place:   …………………….     Designation: ……………………….  
...................…………………………  
              Name of the Company: …….…….  
              …………………………………....….  
Address: …………………………….  
              …………………………………….….  
             Company Seal: ….…………………  
     ………….……………………………..  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Page 9 of 9  
  
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines:  
 
1. Dry fly ash shall be issued from the Ash Silo or other location as decided by 
EIC to the Successful Bidders (or their authorized representatives as may be 
agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering Dry Ash Evacuation System 
(DAES) Availability, Operational and Safety issues.  
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines etc 
and carry out their activities in full compliance with the same.  
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from 
TPP.  
4. Bidders eligible for collecting dry fly ash shall apply for permission for the 
bulkers/covered trucks that they propose to deploy and submit the same to 
EIC along with specified documents like registration, license, insurance etc., 
who shall arrange to verify the same and issue permission as per prevailing 
procedure adopted at the Station.  
5. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule or 
reschedule the lifting of ash from Ash Silos by different agencies, which shall 
be binding upon the Successful Bidders. Successful Bidders shall start 
collecting the Ash as per their respective allocation as per the schedule 
intimated by the EIC.  
6. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders and 
verifiable by TPP.  
7. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination 
of contract / agreement / issue of Dry Fly ash as decided by EIC  
8. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Bidder(s).  
9. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed 
Vehicles shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new 
and / or additional vehicles are deployed) and thereafter as and when 
demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles shall be in fit condition for 
safe operation.  
10. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non-
compliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, 
Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the successful Bidder or its 
representative / agent, during the course of execution and for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful Bidder 
shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity bond 
shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash.  
11. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date.  
 