 
 
 
Page 1 of 9 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)   
for 
Issue of Pond ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis 
(transportation cost to borne by the bidder) from NTPC Gadarwara 
 
Ref EOI No. NTPC Gadarwara/2025-26/AUD/EOI/01       Date: 15.07.2026 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. PART 1: General Information. 
ii. PART 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI.  
iii. PART 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
iv. PART 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B.  
All the above Parts (1 to 4)  shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed  by 
authorized representative of the bidder , on each page and shall be submitted along with 
the specified documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the 
request as acceptable. 
  
 
 
 
Page 2 of 9 
 
 
 
Part 1:  General Information 
GENERAL DETAILS ABOUT NTPC GADARWARA:  
NTPC Gadarwara (1600 MW), a leading power generating unit of the largest power utility of India, 
NTPC Ltd, is located in the Narsinghpur District of the state Madhya Pradesh.  
NTPC Gadarwara is at a distance of approximately 15 KM from Gadarwara Railway station and is 
well connected by road. 
NTPC Gadarwara, generates approximately 25-28 Lakh MT of Ash annually as a byproduct of 
power generation. NTPC Gadarwara has one ash dyke (3 lagoons) for storing ash in ponds.  
To utilize the pond ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF&CC 
Gazette Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, NTPC GADARWARA 
intends to issue some of its Pond Ash to interested agencies on free of cost and on first come first 
served basis (transportation cost to be borne by the bidders). 
For this purpose, NTPC Gadarwara invites Expressions of Interest from interested agencies, for a 
period of 01 (One) year, from its ash dykes. 
Further details regarding this Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follow:  
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Gadarwara invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Bidders, for 
utilization of Pond ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the prescribed 
formats (Part-2 & Part-3).  
Total quantity of fly ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location  Total Quantity 
offered for EoI  Period of Supply 
NTPC GADARWARA SUPER 
THERMAL POWER STATION,  
PO: Gangai Tehsil: Gadarwara 
Distt: Narsinghpur (MP) 
27 LAKH MT  12 Months or 01 year 
 
HOW TO APPLY 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving Pond ash from NTPC GADARWARA as per the terms and 
conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents and 
duly filled in enclosed “Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking 
and Declaration by Bidder” to the E – Mail address <augadarwara@ntpc.co.in> before 17:00 hrs. 
of 30th July 2026. Alternatively, the documents can be submitted in hard copies to A sh 
Management office, 4th Floor Service Building, NTPC Gadarwara Distt : Narsinghpur (MP) 487770. 
Documents to be  submitted with duly filled  “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response to 
EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. PAN Card copy 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 9 
 
 
 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person signing the EOI documents. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary 
proof as applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and authentic. 
Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
ALLOCATION OF POND ASH QUANTITY: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI , Pond ash shall be allocated to various bidders 
free of cost  and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity  of 27 LMT is 
exhausted.  However, collecting from NTPC`s issue location and transportation, thereafter, will be 
in the scope of the bidder only. 
Daily allocation of Pond ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day wise 
requested quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month.  
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability , NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous 
month. 
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC) -
NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
Pond ash shall be issued from the designated ash dykes as decided by the Engineer in charge 
(EIC) of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is where is’ and “first come first served” basis. 
REFUNDABLE SECURITY DEPOSIT (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Successful Bidder(s) for lifting  the allocated Ash. An amount at the 
rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This 
adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of 
entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
 
Part 2:  EOI for Issue of Pond ash from NTPC GADARWARA 
 
 
1. Name of the Ash User / Trader / Transporter:    
 
2. Address:   ………………………………………………………………………………………………….  
……………………………………………………………………………………………………….  
……………………………………………………………………………………………………….   
 
3. Nature of business (tick the applicable box): 
 
Cement Manufacturer:              Ready Mix Concrete (RMC) 
 
Ash Supplier / Trader                          Brick Manufacturer  
 
Any Other (please specify): …………………………………………………………………… 
 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
4. Classification of the Company:  
 
Public Limited / Private Limited/Partnership Firm: …………………………………………… 
         Others (please specify) :  ……………………………………………… 
 
5. Contact details:                                      
Name:  …………………………………………………….. 
Designation: …………………………………. 
Tel No. (with STD code) 
Fax No.: ……………………………………... 
Mobile No …………………………………... 
Email ID: ……………………………………. 
 
 
6. Alternate Contact details:  
Name:  ………………………………………………….. 
Designation: …………………………………. 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 9 
 
 
 
Tel No. (with STD code) 
Fax No.: ……………………………………... 
Mobile No …………………………………... 
Email ID: ……………………………………. 
 
7. Proposed end use of Pond ash: Cement/RMC/Brick/Others (Please specify):  
 
…………………………………………………………………………………. 
 
8. Installed capacity of Ash based Product: ……………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
9. Pond ash requirement on annual basis:  ………………………………………………………………(in MT)  
 
10. Whether willing to enter into Contract? …………………………………………………………………………(Yes/No) 
 
11. Any other relevant information:  ………………………………………………………………………………………… …………. 
 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Signature: …………………….…… 
Place: ………………………. Name of the Person ……………… 
 ……………………………….………  
Designation: ……………………….. 
Name of the Company:  
Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
Company Seal:……………………… 
 
Note: 
1. The party submitting EOI shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of 
the EOI. NTPC Gadarwara will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct 
or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
 
 
Documents to be submitted with EoI: 
1. EMD 2. GST registration  3. Pan Card copy   
4. Documents detailing the nature of the agency - e.g., End user, Trader, Transporter 
etc.  
 
 
 
Page 6 of 9 
 
 
 
Part 3:  UNDERTAKING 
(To be filled by the by the Recipient of Pond Ash) 
 
To           Date: 
 
NTPC LIMITED  
Gadarwara Super Thermal Power Station 
Ash Utilization Department 
1st Floor, Service Building, Stage-I 
Gadarwara, Narsinghpur (CG) 495555 
 
 
Subject: Undertaking in response to EOI for the issue of Pond Ash vide EoI No.           from 
NTPC Gadarwara. 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
I / We (Name of the firm / individual) hereby cer tify that we have fully read and thoroughly 
understood the EOI and accept all terms and conditions of the EOI including those contained in all 
corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. Our offer is in conformity with all the terms and conditions 
of the tender including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of award of contract for issue 
of ash to us, the complete EOI shall be considered as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI/ Sale Order 
for constitution of Sale Contract Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and required by 
NTPC. 
I / We hereby confirm that we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / Semi – Government 
/ Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have been convicted of violating 
applicable law. 
 
In case the contract is awarded to us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (engineer in -charge) with regard to mobilization 
of adequate / commensurate number of healthy machinery and to operate them in a safe manner 
and also with regard to other aspects of the pond ash utilization including dyke safety. I / We agree 
to carry out the work as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding 
environmental, road transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable statutory requirements for, and in 
connection with the execution of the contract. 
 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with other agencies working in the area as directed by 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 9 
 
 
 
the EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of lifting and utilization of pond ash. 
 
 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd from any liability, whatsoever, which 
may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable norms / rule s / regulations/ 
Guidelines / laws during the course of execution by way of omission or commission by the agency 
or its representatives / agents. 
 
 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by NTPC for only the end use purposes as 
identified in ext ant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on quarterly basis, an 
affidavit, on “Actual End Use” of the issued ash for the purposes as identified in extant MOEF & 
CC Notification. 
 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security dep osit amount, in case I fail to execute 
the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract conditions. 
 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI / Auction / Tender are 
true to the best of my/our knowledge and we understand and accept that if at any stage, the 
information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, we are liable for disqualification from this EoI 
/ Auction / Tender and also are liable for any other penal action that may arise due to the above. 
 
 
Thanking you, 
 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
(Name & Designation) 
 
(Seal/ Stamp of Company) 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Page 8 of 9 
 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Pond Ash shall be issued free of cost from any of the Ash Dykes of NTPC Gadarwara on as 
is where is basis as decided by EIC to the Successful Bidders  (or their authorized 
representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering Availability, 
Operational and Safety issues. 
2. Transportation and other related cost towards excavation, loading, unloading etc of Ash shall 
be in the Scope of the Bidder(s).  
3. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant rules and procedures related to 
Dyke Safety and Environmental/sustainability Guidelines of ash transportation and stri ctly 
adhere to during all activities of their work. 
4. The transporters shall ensure full safety of the dykes while excavating, loading and 
transporting the ash from dykes.  If transporter wishes to operate in the night, adequate 
lighting arrangement needs to be done by the transporter. 
5. Transportation of pond ash shall be done in completely covered trucks by 400GSM 
Tarpaulin. Any spill of ash, ash mixed water from the transporting vehicles shall be cleaned 
off by the transporter at his own cost.  
6. Transporter’s vehicles/drivers shall follow the prescribed speed limit, routes and other SOPs 
provided by EIC for the transportation. Repair and maintenance of the dyke road and other 
road enroute (lead route in the dyke)  shall be in the scope of transporter as ash shal l be 
issued on as is where is basis. 
7. The deployment of the transporter in the loading area shall be strictly in line with suggested 
manpower list and responsibilities. The transporter shall abide by all the rules for transporting 
ash from NTPC Gadarwara’s dykes.  
8. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due and written permission from the 
EIC. Such cases shall be liable to prosecution as per legal proceedings . The transporting 
agency shall stick the labels bearing the name of agency in all the equipment and vehicles 
deployed for this work. 
9. Bidders eligible for collecting  Pond Ash shall apply for permission for the bulkers/covered 
trucks that they propose to deploy and submit the same to EIC along with specified 
documents like registration, license, insurance etc., who shall arrange to verify the same and 
issue permission/passes as per prevailing procedure adopted at the Station.  
10. Depending upon operational convenience, safety etc. EIC can schedule or reschedule the 
lifting of ash by different agencies, which shall be binding upon the Bidders. Successful 
Bidders shall start collecting the Ash as per their respective allocation as per the sche dule 
intimated by the EIC. 
11. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be bi nding upon all the Bidders and verifiable by 
TPP.  
12. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination of contract / 
agreement / issue of Pond ash as decided by EIC  
13. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed Vehicles shall be 
submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new and / or additional vehicles are 
deployed) and thereafter as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 9 
 
 
 
shall be in fit condition for safe operation. 
14. Successful Bidders shall submit an affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value, 
certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond ash, in adherence with the provisions of the 
extant Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This  affidavit, in prescribed 
format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
15. In case of any liability on NTPC Gadarwara, in any manner that arises due to non-compliance 
of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, Guidelines and Statutory provisions 
by the successful Bidder or its representative / agent, during the course of execution and for 
future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful Bidder shall keep 
NTPC Gadarwara effectively indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity bond shall be 
submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
16. NTPC reserves the right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case information/details 
provided by bidder in the EOI process are found false even at a later stages. 