   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 1 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
Invitation for Bids (IFB) 
for 
 EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR PV PLANT AT 
JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9                                                                       Date: 15.05.2026 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code: NGEL-2026-TN000003 
Bidding Document No: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
1.0 NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL), on behalf of NTPC UP Green Energy Limited (NUGEL), 
invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single Stage Two Envelope, viz.  Envelope-I: Techno-
Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid, followed by Reverse Auction for EPC PACKAGE FOR 
DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF 
NUGEL 
 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
Design, engineering, manufacturing, supply, packing and forwarding, transportation, unloading, 
storage, installation, testing and commissioning of 100MW Ground Mounted Solar PV Plant 
(including Supply of Modules) at Jhansi, U.P 
The scope includes the following: 
1. Site – Levelling/Grading & Clearing of Vegetation, Topographical Survey, Geotechnical 
Investigation. Land will be provided by Owner on “as is where is”  basis. 
2. Design and Construction of foundation & erection of Module Mounting Structure (MMS) for 
SPV panels, including fixing of PV Modules on MMS and PV Modules interconnection. 
Bidders are to provide fixed tilt system only and the bidding is MU based. 
3. Arranging power supply and water supply for construction purposes. 
4. Construction of Pre-Engineered type Inverter room (if applicable) with Power conditioning 
unit associated LT and HT switchgear. In case of String Inverter, Construction of Pre-
Engineered type HT Switchgear room. 
5. Construction of EHV switchyard (including power transformers) along with CMCS building 
and associated control, protection, communication, automation and other auxiliary systems. 
6. All associated electrical and civil works required for interfacing with grid (i.e. transformers, 
panels, protection system, cables, metering at 33kV level, grid compliance study as per 
regulation etc.), evacuation of power to 220kV switchyard as per detailed technical 
Specifications and applicable technical standards. 
7. Supply, Laying and termination of HT Cables within and between different blocks and 
interconnection  to 33 KV Pooling switchgear in CMCS as per specification.  

   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 2 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
8. Performance testing for demonstration of Guaranteed Generation at 
metering/interconnection point. 
9. Module cleaning system including supply and installation of all accessories. 
10. Construction of internal roads, pathways, construction of Drainage system, periphery 
boundary wall as per General Layout and Topography, any internal / temporary fencing, 
security cabin etc.  
11. SCADA system for remote monitoring and control of Inverters with all hardware & software, 
Power plant controllers, and complete set of Weather Monitoring Station including cloud 
cover. 
12. Dynamic reactive power compensation equipment and Harmonic filters to comply with       the 
requirements of dynamic reactive power capability at Grid POI as per the “Report of the 
Working Group in respect of Data Submission Procedure and Verification of Compliance to 
CEA Regulations on Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid by RE Generators July 
2022” and its clarification(s)/amendment(s) thereof if any. 
13. CCTVs along with remote monitoring system with coverage of CMCS building, 100% 
periphery, entry/exit gates of the solar blocks, WMS inverter stations, etc. 
14. Comprehensive Operation & maintenance of SPV Plant along with electrical equipment, 
consumables, and spare parts for a period of Three years from the date of commissioning 
of full Project capacity. 
15. Supply of Mandatory spares. 
 
The detailed scope of work is as defined in the bidding document No: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-
9. 
3.0 NUGEL intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources/Borrowings. 
 
4.0 Detailed specification, Scope of work and Terms & Conditions are given in the bidding documents, 
which are available for examination and downloading at e- tender portal (as specified in this notice) 
and as per the following schedule: 
 
 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code (TSC) NGEL-2026-TN000003 
IFB Date 15.05.2026 
Period of Downloading of Bidding Documents From 15.05.2026 to 27.05.2026 
upto 17:00 Hrs (IST) 
Pre-Bid Conference and Last Date for receipt of 
queries from prospective Bidders  28.05.2026 
Last Date and Time for receipt of bids comprising 
both Techno-Commercial Bid and Price Bid 08.06.2026 14:00:00 Hrs  
(IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-Commercial 
Bid  08.06.2026 14:30:00 Hrs  
(IST) 
Cost of Bidding Documents NIL 

   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 3 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference as specified above. 
 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security amount of INR 5 Crores (Indian Rupees Five Crores 
Only. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY  IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED.  IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER SHALL SUBMIT THE PROOF OF 
E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE. 
 
6.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder should 
also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and Clause 2.0 
 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
1.1 The Bidder should have designed, supplied, erected/ supervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning of  Solar Photo Voltaic (SPV) based grid 
connected power plant(s) of cumulative installed capacity of 40 MWp or higher, out of which 
at least one plant should have been of 10 MWp or higher capacity. The reference plant of 
10 MWp or higher capacity must have been in successful operation for at least six (6) months 
prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
OR 
1.2 The Bidder should be a developer of Solar Photo Voltaic (SPV) based grid connected power 
plant(s) of cumulative installed capacity of 40 MWp or higher, out of which at least one plant 
should have been of 10 MWp or higher capacity. The reference plant of 10 MWp or higher 
capacity must have been in successful operation for at least six (6) months prior to the date 
of techno-commercial bid opening. 
OR 
1.3 (a) The Bidder should have executed in the last ten (10) years an industrial project either as 
developer or as EPC Contractor in the area of power/ steel/ oil and gas/ petro-chemical/ 
fertilizer/cement/coal mining including coal handling plant and/ or any other process industry 
of a minimum value of INR 200 Crores (Indian Rupees Two Hundred Crores Only) , in a 
single project or single work and the same should be in successful operation for at least 
one (1) year/ six (6) months* prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
* Successful operation: 
At least One (1) year for industrial projects other than RE sector i.e., Solar/Wind. 
At least Six (6) months for projects in RE sector (i.e., Solar/Wind). 
 

   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 4 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
AND 
(b) The Bidder should have executed at least one (1) Electrical Sub-station of 33 kV or above 
voltage level, consisting of equipment such as 33kV or above voltage level circuit breakers 
and Power transformer, either as developer or as EPC Contractor which should be in 
successful operation for at least one (1) year/ six (6) months# prior to the date of techno-
commercial bidopening. 
 
# Successful operation: 
 
At least One (1) year for Electrical Sub-station in Projects other than RE sector i.e., 
Solar/Wind. 
At least Six (6) months for Electrical Sub-station in RE Projects (i.e., Solar/Wind). 
 
The works referred at clause 1.3 (a) & 1.3 (b) can be in same or different projects. 
 
OR 
1.4 The bidder should be an Indian company registered in India and should be Group                                
company/Holding Company/Subsidiary company of a firm meeting the requirement (s) of 
Clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 above. In such a case, Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking jointly 
executed by the firm qualified as per clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 and the Bidder along with its 
bid for complete performance of the contract jointly and severally as per format enclosed in 
the bid document failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected. 
Notes for Clause 1.0 
(a) The reference SPV based grid-connected power plant of 10 MWp or above capacity should 
be at a single location developed by Bidder for itself or any other client. 
(b) SPV based Roof-top/Floating solar power projects, which are grid connected, shall also be 
considered eligible for QR purposes. 
(c) For clause 1.1 & 1.3, Bidder shall submit certificate of successful completion and operation 
from the Owner. However, if bidder in clause 1.3 is a developer, certificate of successful 
commissioning of the project issued from Government Renewable Nodal 
Agency/Government Enterprise/ Discom/ Electricity Board etc. and evidence of successful 
operation from intermediary procurer/ procurer/Discom/ Electricity Board etc. shall be 
submitted.  
(d) For Clause 1.3, bidder shall submit documentary evidence for the value of the project 
certified by a Chartered Accountant. The specified value of executed work shall be 
exclusive of Taxes. 
(e) Direct/Indirect Order 
The Bidder shall also be considered qualified in case the award for executing the reference 
work has been received by the Bidder either directly from the owner of the plant or any other 
intermediary organization. In such a case, a certificate from such owner of plant or any other 
intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the Bidder along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid in support of Bidder’s claim of meeting the qualification requirement 

   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 5 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
as per clause 1.1 and 1.3 above. Bidder shall also submit a certificate of successful 
completion and operation from the Owner.  
(f) For Clause 1.2, Bidder shall submit certificate of successful commissioning of the project 
issued from Government Renewable Nodal Agency/ Government Enterprise/ Discom/ 
Electricity Board etc.  
(g) For Clause 1.2, Bidder shall submit evidence of successful operation from intermediary 
procurer/ procurer/Discom/ Electricity Board etc. 
(h) Developer means an entity who has either executed or got executed the work/ project as 
owner of industrial projects. 
(i) The execution of industrial project as EPC Contractor under Clause No. 1.3 means, such 
EPC Contractor is responsible for all the activities i.e., Design/Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction (with/without civil works) and Commissioning of a project/work. 
(j) The portion of work related to power transformer such as supply and or installation 
mentioned at cl. no. 1.3 (b) can either be done by EPC contractor by themselves or by the 
owner. 
(k) EPC projects with solar PV module supplied by developer/owner as free issue item to EPC 
contractor shall also be considered eligible for route 1.1 of QR. 
(l) If the value of industrial project in clause 1.3 (a) is indicated in foreign currency, the 
exchange rate as on date of award of the reference work shall be considered. In case 
the exchange rate as on the date of award is not available, the exchange rate as on  
the next available day shall be considered. 
 
2.0       FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder should not be less than INR 200 Crores (Indian 
Rupees Two Hundred Crores Only), during the preceding three (3) financial years as 
on date of techno commercial bid opening. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day  of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid- up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
techno-commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding C ompany, supported by 
the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of bidder’s paid-up share capital. In case the Bidder does not 
satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on 
the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding 
companies wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the H olding Company, in combined manner 
should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However 

   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 6 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy -five percent) of their 
respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1, X2, X3 are individual 
Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up share capitals and 
Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents on substantiation 
of its qualification: 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(b)  Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited result of 
three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered 
for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial 
results of the company are under audit as on techno- commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
 
Notes for Clause 2.0 
a. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not 
include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus. 
b. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
c. For the value of annual  Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on 
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno-commercial Bid opening shall be used. 
d. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
e. ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a 
position to:  
(a) exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise; or  

   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 7 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(b) appoint more than fifty percent of members of Board of Directors in the other enterprise.  
 
The meaning of Holding/Subsidiary/Group Company mentioned above shall be applicable for 
Clause 1.4 also. 
  
7.0 NGEL/ NUGEL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
8.0 
 
 
8.1 
Interested parties are required to get registered with M/s ISN Electronic Tender Services (ETS) 
website https://www.bharat-electronictender.com(if not already registered).  
 
The bidder shall be mandatorily required to submit a copy of “ Non-Disclosure Agreement” duly 
signed by the authorized signatory as per the format enclosed ( Annexure-A) along with the IFB to 
enable the Employer to authorize the Bidder for procurement of the Bidding Documents. 
  
 In case of any non -compliance in submission of Non -Disclosure Agreement (NDA), authorization 
shall not be provided to the bidders for procurement of bidding documents. 
 
 
 Interested bidders are required to submit duly signed NDA, on ETS portal, prior to closing of 
Bidding documents sale period to enable the employer for authorizing the bidder to download 
the bidding documents online from the ETS portal. 
 
 
8.2 
 
 
 
8.3 
 
Issuance of Bid Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered to be 
qualified. The bids shall be submitted online. Bidder shall furnish hard copy of Bid Security, Pass 
Phrases, Power of Attorney and other documents separately as  detailed in Bidding Documents 
before the stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given at 11.0 below.  
 
After registration with ETS, a complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any 
interested Bidder from ETS Portal https://www.bharat-electronictender.com with Tender Search 
Code NGEL-2026-TN000003.  
 
Interested bidders are required to ensure that they have downloaded the official copy of bidding 
documents against Tender Search code NGEL-2026-TN000003 from website of ETS before closure 
of Bid Sale Period. If Bidding Documents are downloaded without confirmation or without generating 
official copy serial number, then the bidders will not be able to submit the bids. 
 
For technical assistance, interested parties may call ETS Helpdesk at 0124-4229071, 0124-4229072. 
  
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
 
9.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 

   
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 8 of 8 
 
                  INVITATION FOR BIDS 
10.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
 
11.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
  
Sr Manager (CS) / AGM (CS) 
Contracts Services 
NTPC Green Energy Limited  
4thFloor, Renewables Building 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida 
Gautam Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
Mobile No. : +91-7637011073 
E-mail : madhusmritidevchoudhry@ntpc.co.in/ rajandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
  Corporate Identification Number: L40100DL2022GOI396282, Website: https://www.ngel.in 
  
 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 / NDA 
                                                                                                                ANNEXURE-A TO IFB 
NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT 
THIS NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) made on this …….. day of ………...... 
20…..... Between ……………………………………………………………………………………….., 
a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, and having its Registered Office at 
…………………………………………………………………………………and Corporate Office at 
……………………………………………………………………………………………….. hereinafter 
referred to as “Company” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof mean and include its successors and permitted assigns), of the One Part; 
And NTPC Green Energy Limited, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013, 
and having its Registered Office at NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi 
Road, New Delhi - 110003, India,  hereinafter referred to as NGEL (which expression shall 
unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its successors and permitted 
assigns) of the Other Part. 
The Company and NGEL shall collectively be referred to as the “Parties” and individually as a 
“Party”. 
WHEREAS: 
A.  NGEL envisages to invite tender , on behalf of NTPC UP green Energy Limited for the 
package EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 100MW GROUND MOUNTED 
SOLAR PV PLANT AT JHANSI (U.P.) OF NUGEL  vide IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-
004(EPC)-9 through which it intends to develop Solar Projects won under Competitive 
Bidding Process and/or under Bilateral Arrangements through a competitive bidding 
process (“Evaluation”). 
B.  As part of Evaluation, the bidder shall be issued complete set of bidding documents . 
Further, the bidder is also expected to examine and evaluate all instructions, forms, terms, 
conditions, specifications and other information as furnished as part of the bidding 
documents for the purpose of submission of techno-commercial bids and/or evaluation of 
its bids and/or award of the contract and/or performance of the contract and/or operation 
of the package. 
 
C. It is anticipated by the Parties that, in the course of Evaluation, either Party may disclose 
to the other Party certain Confidential Information (defined hereinafter)  and the party 
disclosing such information shall be the Disclosing Party and that, the party  receiving such 
information shall be the Receiving Party as the case may be. 
 
D. It is also anticipated by the Parties that, after the award of the contract and/or during the 
performance of the contract and/or  during the operation of the package, a Party 
(“Disclosing Party”) may disclose to the other Party (“Receiving Party”) certain Confidential 
Information (defined hereinafter). 
E.  Accordingly, the Parties are desirous of entering into this Non-Disclosure Agreement 
which sets out their mutual confidentiality obligations in respect of the Confidential 
Information disclosed to each other in the course of their discussions on the Evaluation. 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 / NDA 
F.  Each Party undertakes to comply with the terms and conditions as contained hereinafter 
which shall govern the exchange and handling of the non-disclosure and use of the 
Confidential Information. 
NOW THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES CONTAINED 
HEREIN, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS: 
1. Definitions and Interpretations: 
1.1  “Affiliates” means, with respect to any Person, a Person that directly or indirectly through 
one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, 
the Person specified. For the purposes of this definition, “control” (including, with 
correlative meanings, the terms “controlled by” and “under common control with”) shall 
mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power, alone or together with others, 
to direct or cause the direction of the Management and policies of such Person, whether 
through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. 
1.2  “Confidential Information” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 2.1. 
1.3  “Disclosing Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.4  “Government” or “Governmental Instrumentality” shall mean any ministry, department, 
political subdivision, instrumentality, agency, provincial or municipal council, authority, 
body or entity, corporation or commission under the control of the GOI and any other 
local or other authority, agency or statutory body exercising powers conferred by Laws; 
1.5  “Laws” means all laws, statutes, enactments, acts of legislature or parliament, 
ordinances, rules, bye-laws, regulations, notifications, policies, guidelines, directions, 
directives, decision, decrees and orders of any Governmental Instrumentality having the 
force of law. 
1.6  “Materials” means the part of any tangible media upon or within which any part of the 
Confidential Information is recorded or reproduced in any form and shall include any 
storage device which forms a part of computer hardware. 
1.7  “Person” includes any natural person, firm, company, Governmental Authority, joint 
venture, association, partnership or other entity (whether or not having separate legal 
personality). 
1.8  “Receiving Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.9  “Representatives” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 3 (a). 
2.  Confidential Information 
2.1  “Confidential Information” means information which is legally owned and possessed by 
the Disclosing Party and which ought to be considered as confidential from its nature or 
from the circumstances surrounding its disclosure, in whatever form or media, imparted 
or disclosed by the Disclosing Party to the Receiving Party, in writing or by any other 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 / NDA 
medium upon the execution of this Agreement or during the course of the discussions 
on the Evaluation. Confidential Information includes information: 
a) relating to the Disclosing Party’s business, corporate policies, strategies, operations, 
finances, employees, plans or opportunities and commercial information including 
profitability information and charts and the identity of, or particulars about, the Disclosing 
Party, marked identified as confidential, restricted, secret or proprietary at the time of 
disclosure during the discussions on the Evaluation; 
b)  the fact that the discussions referred to herein are taking place, and all notes, extracts, 
compilations or Materials or media, which are copies of or derivative works of the 
Confidential Information. 
 But does not include any information which: 
a)  is now, or hereafter, through no willful act or failure by the Receiving Party, becomes, 
generally known or available to the public; 
b)  is furnished to the Receiving Party on a non-confidential basis by a third party whom 
the Receiving Party reasonably believes that the Disclosing party had not obtained it 
under an obligation of confidentiality.; 
c)  is an information which the Receiving Party can evidence as having been independently 
developed by it without violating this Agreement; or 
d)  is legally known to the Receiving Party prior to the time of disclosure by the Disclosing 
Party. 
2.2 Obligation of Confidentiality 
 The Receiving Party shall keep the Confidential Information strictly confidential and shall 
use it for the purposes of Evaluation and shall not disclose or divulge or provide any 
Confidential Information to a third party, in manner whatsoever, without the prior written 
consent of the Company. In case the Receiving Party is required to disclose any 
Confidential Information in terms of any Law, the Receiving Party shall endeavor to give 
the Disclosing Party reasonable notice as may be legally possible prior to such disclosure 
to obtain any applicable protective order or equivalent and provide such assistance, as may 
be required by the Disclosing Party for the purposes of safeguarding such Confidential 
Information and further comply with the same. 
3. Undertakings and Covenants of the Parties: 
Each Party hereby agrees, undertakes, confirms and covenants with the other that: 
a)  it shall keep strictly confidential and not use, reveal, provide or transfer to any Person, 
directly or indirectly, the Confidential Information or any part thereof, except to such of 
its employees, directors, co-investors, debt financing sources, attorneys, accountants, 
consultants or representatives (collectively, “Representatives”) strictly on a “need-to - 
know” basis for the purpose of Evaluation, and the Receiving Party shall at all times 
remain fully responsible for such Representatives’ compliance under this Agreement; 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 / NDA 
b)  it shall not keep, reproduce, use for any unauthorized purpose or part with possession 
of any documents or Material relating to the Confidential Information, save as required 
for the purposes of Evaluation, except with the prior written consent of the Disclosing 
Party; 
c)  it shall apply, adopt and enforce appropriate procedures and policies with regard to and 
in respect of transmission, publication and disclosure of the Confidential Information, in 
order to preserve the confidentiality or propriety of such information; 
d)  it shall exercise the same care in preventing unauthorised disclosure or use of the 
Confidential Information as it would take to protect and safeguard the confidentiality of 
its own information of a similar nature; 
e)  it shall maintain proper records and enforce strict accountability of all Confidential 
Information received from the Disclosing Party and whenever required to transmit 
publish or disclose or otherwise provide such Confidential Information subject to, and as 
may be permitted under this Agreement, it shall do so with due diligence and shall 
convey to the recipient of such information that the same is subject to non disclosure 
obligations under this Agreement, so as to put the recipient on notice that the recipient 
shall be held accountable in respect of disclosure of such Confidential Information and 
that the recipient is expected to maintain confidentiality as if the recipient was a party to 
this Agreement and obtain such assurances, agreement and undertaking from the 
recipient that it shall return such information upon request by the Disclosing Party; 
f)  it shall ensure that the Representatives are made aware of the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement including without limitation the confidentiality obligations of the Receiving 
Party under this Agreement and abide by it at all times. 
g)  Any materials or documents that have been furnished by the Disclosing Party to the 
Receiving Party in connection with the relationship will be promptly returned by the 
Receiving Party, accompanied by all copies of such documentation or certification of 
destruction, within TEN days after the relationship has terminated or on the written 
request of the Company. 
4. Term: 
 Unless otherwise agreed to, expressly in writing by the Parties, the obligations hereunder 
shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with the terms hereof and shall 
terminate on the expiry of earlier of (i) the Parties entering into legally binding documentation 
in relation to or pursuant to the Evaluation; and (ii) twelve months from the date of this 
Undertaking; 
5. Rights and Remedies of the Disclosing Party: 
5.1 On the expiry of the term of this Agreement or upon its termination for any reason 
whatsoever or immediately upon the Disclosing Party’s request at any time during the term 
hereof, the Receiving Party shall forthwith return to the Disclosing Party all the Material 
which are capable of returning to the Disclosing Party, then in the possession of the 
Receiving Party which contain any such Confidential Information, and shall forth with take 
reasonable steps to expunge all Confidential Information (and any copy that may have been 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 / NDA 
made) from any computer, word processor or other device containing the Confidential 
Information. 
5.2 In the event of breach of any of the conditions stipulated by this Agreement, the Disclosing 
Party shall be at liberty to take necessary steps to prevent the Receiving Party from 
disclosing or using such Confidential Information except as authorized herein, including 
without limitation, terminate this Agreement by serving 30 (thirty) days prior notice, in 
writing. 
5.3 The Receiving Party acknowledges and undertakes that unauthorised disclosure or use of 
the Confidential Information by it shall cause irreparable damage to the Disclosing Party in 
such a way that the Disclosing Party cannot be adequately compensated in damages in an 
action at law. Accordingly, if any dispute arises concerning the disclosure or use of any 
Confidential Information by the Receiving Party, the Disclosing Party may seek injunctive 
relief restraining the un-authorised disclosure or use of the Confidential Information by the 
Receiving Party or specific performance of this Agreement. The above remedy will be in 
addition to any other legal or equitable remedy otherwise available to the Disclosing Party. 
6. Compliance with Law 
 Each Party acknowledges that some or all of the Confidential Information provided herein (in 
case Disclosing Party is a listed company) is or may be price-sensitive information and that 
the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by Law and each Party 
undertakes not to use, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information in contravention of 
any Law. On acquiring any Confidential Information, each Party shall comply with all Laws, 
and shall indemnify and hold the other Party harmless against any consequences arising 
from any violation by such Party or its Representatives of such Laws. 
7. Entire Agreement: 
 The terms and conditions herein constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the 
Parties on the subject matter of this Agreement and shall cancel and supersede all 
communications, negotiations, arrangements and agreements, either oral or written, 
between the Parties hereto, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 
8. Amendments: 
 No amendment to or modification of this Agreement shall be valid or enforceable unless 
reduced to writing and executed by the Parties hereto. 
9. Waiver: 
 The failure to exercise or delay in exercising a right or remedy under this Agreement shall 
not constitute a waiver of the right or remedy or a waiver of any other rights or remedies and 
no single or partial exercise of any right or remedy under this Agreement shall prevent any 
further exercise of the right or remedy or the exercise of any other right or remedy.  
10. Notice 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 / NDA 
10.1 Any notice, demand or other communication required or permitted to be given to either 
Party by, or made pursuant to, this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be personally 
delivered to such Party, sent by prepaid courier; or sent by facsimile transmission, 
charges prepaid, confirmed by prepaid courier to the following address: 
 
To:   ……………………………………………………………. (Name of Company) 
Attn:   …………………………………………………………….. 
Address:  …………………………………………………………….. 
Phone:  …………………………………………………………… 
 
To: NTPC Green Energy Limited 
Registered Address: NTPC Limited, Core 7, Scope Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi-110003 
10.2 Any Party may from time to time change its address upon serving at least 5 (five) 
business days prior written notice to the other Party given in accordance with the 
provisions hereof. 
10.3 Any notice, demand or other communication delivered in accordance with Article (10.1) 
or (10.2) above if delivered during the normal business hours of the intended recipient, 
shall be deemed to have been received on the day of its delivery, otherwise on the next 
business day, and if sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been received on the 
date of its transmission by facsimile provided that in the case of a facsimile the recipient’s 
facsimile number appears on the senders transmission report (confirmation copy to be 
sent by prepaid courier). 
11.0 Severability: 
 Any provision in this Agreement which is held to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or 
in part, under any applicable enactment or rule of law, shall be ineffective to the extent 
of such illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions and 
any such illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed to be restated to reflect as 
nearly as possible the original intentions of the Parties in accordance with the applicable 
law. 
12.0 Governing Law: 
 This Agreement shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the 
laws of India. 
13.  Dispute Resolution: 

 
IFB No. NGEL-CS-5840-004(EPC)-9 / NDA 
 Courts at  Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the  disputes pertaining to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
14.  Counterparts: 
 This Agreement may be executed in 2 (two) counterparts, each of which when executed 
and delivered is an original and shall be retained by each Party and taken together shall 
constitute and evidence the same Agreement between the Parties. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed these presents, in duplicate, the day 
and year first herein above mentioned. 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by ………………………………………………………… (Name of Company) 
in the presence of 
…………………………………………………………. 
 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by NTPC Green Energy Ltd 
in the presence of 
………………………………………………………… 
