 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 1 of 13 
 
Annexure- B 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)   
for 
Issue of pond ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from NTPC Unchahar  
 
Ref No. EOI No. AU/PA/2026-27/1                     Date: …………  
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1:  General Information. 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI.  
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines.  
v. AFFIDAVIT:  Annexure- D 
vi. INDEMNITY BOND:  Annexure- E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B.  
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as 
acceptable. 
 
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 2 of 13 
 
Annexure- B 
Part 1:  General Information 
 
General Details about NTPC Unchahar:  
NTPC Unchahar, located at Unchahar, District-Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh -229406 having a total 
installed capacity of 1560 MW, is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk 
power. 
To utilize the Pond ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant 
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, NTPC 
Unchahar intends to issue some of its Pond Ash on free of cost and on first come first served 
basis, with transportation cost being borne by the Bidders. 
To facilitate this, NTPC Unchahar invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 
June- 2026 to May-2027). Further details regarding this Expression of Interest (EOI) are as 
follow:  
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Unchahar invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Bidders, for 
utilization of pond ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the 
prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3).  
Total quantity of pond ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per 
details given here under :– 
 
Power Stations / Location  Total Quantity 
offered for EoI  Period of Supply 
NTPC Unchahar  SUPER THERMAL 
POWER STATION (USTPS)  
Post office: NTPC Unchahar, 
Distt- Raebareli 
State: Uttar Pradesh 
PIN: 229406 
     15.90  LMT  From June-2026 to May-
2027 
 
How to apply 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving pond ash from NTPC Unchahar as per the terms and 
conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents 
and duly filled in enclosed “ Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “ Part 3: 
Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder” to the E – Mail address girishsarsiya@ntpc.co.in 
on or before 18:00 hrs. of 31st May, 2026.   
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 3 of 13 
 
Annexure- B 
 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with 
documentary proof as applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
 
Allocation of pond ash Quantity: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EOI, pond ash shall be allocated to various 
bidders free of cost and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity is 
exhausted.  However, collecting from NTPC`s issue location and transportation, thereafter, will 
be in the scope of the bidder only. 
 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation against both the Auction Process and this EoI, 
then the Ash quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that Bidder, only after the 
Bidder completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process. 
 
 
Daily allocation of pond ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day 
wise requested quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month. In case 
any bidder proposes to collect the ash through Rail (subject to Rail Loading Facility 
being available at the station), same shall also be indicated in this requisition. 
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability. NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous 
month. 
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, 
allocate such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge 
(EIC)-NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
Pond ash shall be issued from the, the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / Pond(s) or other 
location as decided by EIC of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Successful Bidder(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the 
rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. 
This adjusted SD amount will be refunded after end of the contract period. 
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 4 of 13 
 
Annexure- B 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue Pond Ash from Unchahar Super Thermal power Station (NTPC Unchahar) from 
where Pond Ash is to issued) 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm)  
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
2.3 
Nature of Business:   
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year  
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility  
Whether capable of handling pond ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
3 
Registered Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 5 of 13 
 
4 
Communication Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
6 Pond ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
Figures:  
Words: 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last pond ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No).   
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT)  
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
8 Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport pond ash if issued.  
9 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the pond ash, if issued. 
SN  Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 6 of 13 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
11 Any other relevant information  
 
 
 
For and on behalf of    
 
      
Date:  
Place: 
     Signature: 
     (Authorized Representative)  
 
Name: 
 
Designation: 
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 7 of 13 
 
Annexure- B 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder.  
UNDERTAKING 
 
I / We _________________________________________ (Name of the firm / individual) 
hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI requirements 
and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained in all 
corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the terms and 
conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of allocation 
of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered as part and parcel of the 
LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and 
required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / Semi 
– Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have 
been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, Sequence of 
Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization of adequate 
number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement conducive to 
environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out the above as per 
instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding 
safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable 
statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area as 
directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting and 
utilization of Pond ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries 
from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any 
applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and  
for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us or my / our 
representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization Avenues as 
identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly basis, 
an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes / Avenues as identified 
in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / we fail 
to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract conditions 
mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true and 
authentic  to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any 
stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for 
disqualification from this EoI and also  liable for any other penal action that may arise due to 
the above. 
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 8 of 13 
 
Annexure- B 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for pond ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the 
EoI. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the 
conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to Railways, haulage charges and 
other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in Environment friendly manner, 
will be in my / our scope. While I / we understand that the Station may at its discretion, 
consider part / full facilitation for lifting of pond ash thru rail – mode / road cum rail mode, 
subject to feasibility and cost economics, I / we also understand that I /we shall have no 
claim whatsoever, in this regard. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, to the parties who have 
submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of 
submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of all 
specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as per the 
conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along with requisite 
security deposit and other specified documents required by the respective station within 
stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the pond ash allocation to me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated pond ash through auction process also from same 
Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ……….    Name ……………………………… 
       ……………………………………… 
Place:  …………………….   Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
       Name of the Company: …….……. 
       …………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
       …………………………………….…. 
       …………………………………….…. 
       Company Seal: …..………………… 
     
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 9 of 13 
 
 Annexure- B 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Pond ash shall be issued from, the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / Pond(s) 
or other location as decided by EIC, to the Successful Bidders (or their 
authorized representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC based 
on approval by HOP), considering Operational and Safety issues of Ash dyke.  
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines etc 
and carry out their activities in full compliance with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from 
TPP. 
4. Job specific facilitation viz. approach / ramp to specific allocated area and 
local fugitive dust suppression shall be in the scope of the recipient agency. 
5. Bidders eligible for collecting Pond ash shall apply for permission for the 
closed / covered Trucks / other suitable transportation medium that they 
propose to deploy and submit the same to EIC along with specified 
documents like registration, license, insurance etc, who shall arrange to verify 
the same and issue permission as per prevailing procedure adopted at the 
Station.  
6. Transportation of pond ash shall be done in completely covered trucks by 
400GSM Tarpaulin . Any spill of ash, ash mixed water from the transporting 
vehicles shall be cleaned off by the transporter at his own cost. 
7. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule the 
lifting of Ash from Designated storage area by different agencies, which shall 
be binding upon the agencies. The schedules and deployment may be worked 
out / altered based on periodic meetings between concerned stakeholders. 
Agencies shall mobilize with adequate manpower, vehicles and machinery 
within 15 days of issue of communication from the EIC.   
8. Transportation and other related cost towards excavation, loading, unloading 
etc of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Bidder(s).  
9. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders and 
verifiable by TPP.  
 
Annexure- B 
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 10 of 13 
 
 
10. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination 
of contract / agreement / issue of Pond ash as decided by EIC  
11. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed 
Vehicles shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new 
and / or  additional vehicles are deployed) and thereafter as and when 
demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles shall be in fit condition for 
safe operation. 
12. Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of 
requisite value, certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond ash, in 
adherence with the provisions of the extant Notification and other applicable 
statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed format, shall be submitted on 
Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
13. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non-
compliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, 
Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the successful Bidder or its 
representative / agent, during the course of execution and for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful Bidder 
shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity bond 
shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
14. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 11 of 13 
 
Annexure- D 
AFFIDAVIT 
(To be submitted by the Ash Recipient on Half Yearly basis) 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
 
I……………. son/daughter /wife of …………. permanent resident of ………. do hereby 
solemnly affirm and state on oath as under:  
(1) That I am the owner / proprietor / partner / authorized representative of M/s 
………………...  
having their registered office at ………………. and engaged in the business of 
……………….  
(2) That I / we have participated in auction/EOI for allotment of Ash from NTPC- Unchahar, 
against EoI/Bid Specification number ………………….……… and that I / we have been 
allocated ………... quantity of Ash from NTPC- Unchahar.   
(3) That I hereby affirm that Ash Recipient, M/s ………. has used the received Ash quantity 
in adherence to the relevant provisions specified vide extant Notifications and other 
applicable statutory regulations, in the following activities:-  
1…………………….  
2……………………  
3……………………  
DEPONENT  
 
VERIFICATION  
 
Verified on…………. this day of ………... that the contents of our affidavit are true and 
correct to the best of my knowledge and nothing material has been concealed thereof.  
 
DEPONENT 
 
         
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 12 of 13 
 
Annexure- E 
  
INDEMNITY BOND 
(On non-judicial paper of appropriate value and to be stamped in accordance with Stamp 
Act. The stamp paper to be in the name of Ash Recipient) 
This bond of indemnity is made on this……………… day of…….………by 
………..(name),…………….. (address) and ……………………………(details of the 
incorporation of the Ash Recipient) hereinafter referred to as the ‘Ash Recipient’ which 
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its 
successors, administrators, executors and assigns) in favour of...........NTPC Limited  
Unchahar (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Thermal Power Plant (hereinafter called TPP)’, 
which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its 
successors, administrators and assigns)  
WHEREAS, TPP has issued to the Ash Recipient, an order/ permission letter No..……….. 
dated…………. and in terms of the said Order, the TPP has agreed to issue Pond Ash to 
Ash Recipient.  
AND WHEREAS one of the conditions for the issue of the ‘Pond Ash’ is that the Ash 
Recipient shall furnish an Indemnity Bond in favour of the TPP, indemnifying TPP from any 
liability of whatsoever nature, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any 
applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution of 
order/ permission letter no…….. by way of omission or commission by the Ash Recipient or 
its representatives / agents.  
Now this Indemnity Bond witnesseth as follows:  
1.0 The Ash Recipient hereby undertakes to fully and irrevocably indemnify and keep 
indemnified the TPP against any and all of various liabilities of whatsoever nature, which 
may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ 
Guidelines / laws including MOEF&CC Guidelines during the course of lifting or handling of 
Ash, transportation of ash in environment friendly manner, transportation without spillage/ 
offloading enroute in full or part and for future obligations (if any), by way of omission or 
commission by the Ash Recipient or its representatives / agents for Ash issued by the TPP 
to the Ash Recipient vide order / permission letter no. …………  
2.0 This Indemnity Bond shall be valid till six (6) calendar months after the scheduled date / 
actual date of complete lifting of allocated Ash Quantity, whichever is later.  
3.0 It is clearly understood and agreed to by the Ash Recipient that non-observance of the 
obligations under this Indemnity Bond by the Ash Recipient shall Inter-alia constitute a 
criminal breach of trust on the part of the Ash Recipient and they shall be liable for all 
legal/penal consequences thereof as decided by TPP.  
4.0 Now the condition of this Bond is that the Ash Recipient shall duly and punctually 
comply with all the terms and conditions of this bond to the satisfaction of TPP, then, the 
above bond shall be void, but otherwise, it shall remain in full force.  
 
 (For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 13 of 13 
 
5.0 That this bond shall be irrevocable during its validity period and the Ash Recipient shall 
not revoke this bond till it is discharged by TPP in writing.  
 
WITNESS  
.............................     (Signature) ................................................  
(Signature)  
...................................    (Name of Ash Recipient) ……………………. 
(Name)  
...............................     Name of the Authorized person  
(Official Address)     having Power of Attorney..................  
Designation.......................................  
Seal.................................................. 