 N
TPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITAT
ION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
ASH HANDLING SYSTEM PACKAGE 
FOR  
TELANGANA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT STAGE-II (3X800 MW)  
LOCATED AT 
 RAMAGUNDAM, DISTRICT KARIMNAGAR IN THE STATE OF TELANGANA, 
INDIA. 
 (Domestic Compe
titive Bidding) 
IFB No.: CS-9592-162-9  Date: 19.05.2026 
Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_108270_1 
A. NTPC 
invites on-line bids for As h Handling System Package for T elangana STPP
Stage-II(3X800MW), at NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at websi te- 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope-I:
Techno-Co
mmercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid
package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.
B.
BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK
The Brief scope of work for the subject Ash Handling System Package for Telangana STPP
Stage-
II (3X800 MW) is as follows:
Design, Engineering, Manufacture, Supply, Construction, Erection, Testing & Commissioning
works for the Ash Handling System Package for Telangana STPP Stage-II (3 X 800 MW) on
the basis of single point responsibility, completely covering t he following activities and
services in respect of ECW system associated Electrical & civil works, Ash handling System
comprising of dry bottom ash handling, fly ash conveying, fly ash transportation, Bottom Ash
slurry disposal system, High Concentration Fly Ash Slurry dispo sal System & AWR S,
Com
pressed Air System, Air Conditioning & Ventilation Systems, Fire detection and Alarm
system at AWRS ends, Auxiliary Transformers, HT Switchgears, MV Bus-duct, DC Batteries,
Battery chargers, LT switchgear & LT Bus Duct, LT Transformer ( Outdoor), HT & LT power
ca
bles, LT control cables, Construction Power, Lightning Protec tion, Lighting, Cabling,
Earthing, 11KV Overhead Line & Other associated Electrical works for AWRS, all Control &
Instrumentation(C&I) with DDCMIS and HMIPIS , Fireproof cable penetration sealing system,
Sol
ar PV plant on roof tops of buildings, Associated Civil, Structural & Architectural works for
As
h handling, Ash water Recirculation system and ECW system, earthing mat/grounding for
the 
areas, Miscellaneous civil works including Roads & Drains, underground facilities like
d
rainage, sewerage, trenches, Rain Water Harvesting, etc covered under the specifications:
a
. Basic Engineering of the plant  including preparation of Plant Definition Manuals;
b.
Detailed design of all the equipment and equipment system(s)  including civil,
structure steel & Architectural works included in bidder's scope.
c
. Providing engineering drawings, equipment sizing & performan ce data, instructi on
m
anuals, as built drawings and other information;
d. Compliance with statutory requirements and obtaining clearan ces from statutory
authorities, wherever required;
e.
Complete manufacturing including shop testing/type testing;
f.
The complete Civil, structural and architectural works
g.
Packing and transportation from the manufacturer’s works to the site including logistic
studies, insurance, customs clearance & port clearance, port charges, if any.
h.
Receipt, storage, preservation, handling and conservation of equipment at the site;
i. Fabrication, pre-assembly, if any, erection, insurance, test ing, commissioning a nd
c
ompletion of facilities including putting into satisfactory op eration all the equipment
including successful completion of initial operation;
j. Performance and guarantee tests along with initial operation ;
k
. Supply of spares on FOR site basis ;
l.
Reconciliation with Customs Authorities;
m.
Satisfactory conclusion of the Contract;
n. Insurance and other requiremen ts
o.
The plant shall be ZLD compliant
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
C. NTPC inten
ds to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity.
D.
 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions ar e given in the Bidding
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal  of NIC at
https://ep
rocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:
Bidding Document No
 CS-9592-162-9 
Cost of Bidding Document NIL 
Documents Download Date and Time From 19.05.2026 onwards 
Pre Bid Conference Date 04.06.2026 from 1100 HRS(IST) 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 04.06.2026 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
Up to 1300 HRS (IST) on 18.06.2026 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I (Techno-
Commercial bid) 
18.06.2026 at 1530 HRS (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II (Price bid) Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Note: 
Bidders are advised to visi t the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  o f  N T P C  f o r  
updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC 
portal of NTPC. 
E. All 
bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 20,00,00,000/- (Indian
Rupees Twenty Crore 
only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.
Bidders 
participating through Consortium route shall collective ly submit the Bid
security for an amount of INR 20,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Twenty Crore only) as
per below:
Lead 
Partner of Consortium shall submit the Bid Security for an  amount o f
INR 1
4,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Fourteen Crore only).
Other Partners of Consortium shall collectively submit the Bid Security for an amount of
INR 
6,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Six Crore only). However, each such Consorti um
Partner 
shall individually furnish a minimum Bid Security of IN R 2,00,00,000/- (Indian
 
Rupees Two Crore only), forming part of the aforesaid collective amount.  
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS  E-BG/ 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE CO PY 
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is in vited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll th emselves on the website https ://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is m andatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidder s should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also  has the user manuals 
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall b e submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
 
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.  
    
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in thi s tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received  (if any) from Class-II 
Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, wi ll be eligible to bid only if 
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentio ned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Governm ent of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (CS) / AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-9650991817/9650099276 
 
E-mail: amitk@ntpc.co.in/bmandal@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
Approved Qualifying Requirements for Telangana-II (3 X 800MW) Ash Handling 
System Package 
 
1.0 In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under Section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the Bidder should also 
meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in clauses 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 or 1.4 and related financial clauses 
(as applicable). 
 
1.1    ROUTE- I (QAHPM Route: Qualified Ash Handling Plant Manufacturer Route): 
           The Bidder should be a supplier of ash handling systems and should have executed ash 
handling systems involving  design, engineering, manufacturing/got manufactured, supply, 
erection /supervised erection and commissioning/ supervised commissioning for  1.1(a),1.1(b) 
and 1.1(c) 
 
(a)  Pneumatic fly ash handling system for conveying  fly ash from ESPs of a single coal / lignite 
fired boiler unit by either: 
 
(i) Pressure conveying system designed for 30 TPH or more conveying capacity. 
OR 
(ii)  Vacuum conveying  system designed for 30 TPH or more conveying capacity per vacuum 
extractor. 
The reference fly ash handling systems should be of the same type i.e. pressure system or vacuum system, as 
is being offered by the Bidder. 
An individual boiler unit having its own independent fly ash handling system up to wetting units/ dry dust 
collection buffer hoppers/intermediate Silos which includes, among others, independent fly ash handling 
equipment below ESP hoppers, independent ash conveying piping up to wetting units/ dry dust collection buffer 
hoppers can be considered as a plant for meeting the requirement above. 
AND 
 (b)  Pneumatic Fly Ash Transportation System  for transporting fly ash from coal / lignite fired boiler 
unit having capacity of not less than 20 TPH for a conveying distance of not less than 500 meters. 
  
Further, a transportation system provided for an individual boiler unit having dedicated transportation vessels 
below dry dust collection buffer hoppers and dedicated piping from dry dust collection buffer hoppers / 
intermediate Silos to storage silos, inc luding storage silo equipment (like Vent Filter, Rotary Feeder, Ash 
Unloader/Telescopic chute, Ash Conditioner etc) can be considered as a plant for meeting the requirement 
above.  
AND 
(c) High Concentration Ash Slurry disposal system:             
           Complete High Concentration ash slurry disposal system for handling not less than 40 tons of ash per hour for 
coal / lignite fired  boiler unit which includes, among others, positive displacement ash slurry pumps & piping 
system with associated controls.  
Notes to Clause no.  1.1 
(i) The systems mentioned at clause 1.1(a), (b), & (c) above, should have been in successful operation in at 
least one (1) plant for at least one (1) year prior to the date of techno -commercial bid opening. For the 
purpose of qualification, the experience as a t clause 1.1(a), (b), & (c) above in separate plants is also 
permissible.  
 
(ii) The activity of design and engineering under clause1.1 (a) &(b) should have been carried out by the Bidder. 
The activity of design and engineering under clause 1.1 (c) should have been carried out either by the Bidder 
or through design agency/agencies having experience for high concentration ash slurry disposal system as 
in clause 1.1 ( c). Supply of HCSD Pump from owner/EPC Contractor in the reference plant is also 
acceptable for the purpose of qualification. 
 
 
 
(iii) For reference fly ash handling systems, the design capacity of conveying from ESPs to wetting units/buffer 
hoppers/intermediate Silos and of transportation from buffer hoppers/ intermediate Silos to storage silos will 
be the capacity which the client (of t he reference plant against which the Bidder is seeking qualification) 
must have specified in its contract documents. 
OR 
1.2 ROUTE- II 
 
The Bidder who has executed ash handling systems but does not meet the requirements under clause 1.1 in 
part or in full can also participate provided it has executed at least the following system of ash handling plant 
involving design, engineering, manufac turing/got manufactured, supply, erection/supervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning: 
 
Fly Ash Handling System  for conveying  30 TPH or more  fly ash from ESPs in dry form involving 
pneumatic conveying systems of vacuum or pressure type. 
The system mentioned above should have been in successful operation in at least one (1) plant for one (1) year 
prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening and should have been installed in a coal / lignite fired boiler 
unit. 
AND 
 collaborates/ associates with party(ies) who meet(s) either the total requirement or the balance part, under 1.1 
(b) & (c) above, which the Bidder itself is not able to meet. 
In such a case, the Bidder  shall be required to furnish a Letter of support from Collaborator/ Associates for  
successful performance of the relevant system valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the end of defect 
liability period of the contract whichever is later, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents . The 
Letter of support shall be submitted along with the techno-commercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be 
disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected.  
 
Note to Clause no. 1.2: 
  For design and engineering activity referred under paras of clause 1.2 should have been carried out by either 
the Bidder or through design agency/agencies having experience for reference systems.  In such a case, the 
Bidder shall be required to furnish a Letter of support from design agency for successful performance of the 
relevant system valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract 
whichever is later. The Letter of support shall be submitted along with the techno-commercial bid, failing which 
the Bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected. In case of Collaborator(s)/associate(s) meeting the 
balance part of total requirement under clause 1.1, the activity of design and engineering for the reference 
systems should have been carried out by collaborator(s)/associate(s). 
OR 
 
1.3      ROUTE- III (EPC Organization in collaboration with QAHPM) 
 EPC organization in Collaboration with QAHPM (Qualified Ash Handling Plant Manufacturer):  
a) The Bidder should be an Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) organization and should have 
executed, in the last 10 years from the last day of month previous to one in which NIT has been invited, industrial 
projects on EPC basis (with or without civil works) in the area of Power  / Steel / Oil & Gas / Petro-chemical/ 
Fertilizer/ Flue Gas Desulphurization / Cement and/or any other process industry with the total value of such 
projects being ₹ 500 Crore or more. At least, one of such projects should have a contract value of ₹ 200 Crore 
or more. These projects shall be in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year  prior to the 
date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
b) The Bidder should also have a valid ongoing collaboration and technology transfer/Licensing agreement with a 
QAHPM meeting requirements of clause 1.1 on its own, valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the end 
of defect liability period of the contract whichever is later.  In such a case, Bidder  can either source the AHP 
System from such manufacturer or  got manufactured the AHP System as per the design and manufacturing 
drawings released by such QAHPM. 
 
c) The Bidder shall be required to furnish a Letter of support  from Collaborator/Licensor/Technology provider for 
successful performance of the AHP system valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the end of defect 
liability period of the contract whichever is later, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents. The 
 
 
Letter of support shall be submitted along with  the techno-commercial bid, failing which the Bidder shall be 
disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected.  
 
Notes for Clause 1.3 
 
(i) QAHPM (Qualified Ash Handling Plant Manufacturer) means a single manufacturer meeting requirement 
stipulated at clause 1.1 (a), (b), & (c).  
 
(ii) The Technology transfer/Licensing agreement between the Bidder & QAHPM shall necessarily cover 
transfer/licensing of technological know -how for the AHP system in the form of transfer/licensing of 
design dossier, design software’s, drawings and documentation and quality system manuals. 
 
(iii) The value of executed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at current price level by 
adding 5% for each completed year (total number of days/365) after the end date of 
completion/execution/commissioning of the reference work, till the last  day of month previous to one in 
which NIT has been invited. The specified value of executed works is excluding any taxes and duties. 
 
(iv) The word “executed” means:  
 
a. In case of Project(s), the project(s) should have been commissioned/ completed, even if the contract 
has been started earlier and / or is not completed / closed.  
 
b. In case of Contract(s), the scope of work under the contract(s) should have been 
commissioned/completed, even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not closed. 
 
OR 
 
1.4 ROUTE- IV (Consortium Route) 
 
Bidder shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of corporate entities wherein each consortium partner 
shall have their own technical strength with respect to Scope of package , collectively meeting the qualifying 
requirements stipulated in clauses 1.1. 
 
The number of consortium partners shall be limited to a maximum of Three (03). The consortium agreement 
shall be furnished clarifying the split up of scope among consortium partners. Accordingly, each consortium 
partner shall necessarily be required to meet any one or more of the following requirements: 
 
a. Design and engineering of Ash Handling System defined in 1.1 (a),1.1(b) and 1.1(c) along with Notes 
to Clause no.  1.1 
b. Manufacturing and supply of Ash Handling System defined in 1.1 (a),1.1(b) and 1.1(c) along with Notes 
to Clause no.  1.1 
c. Erection works of Ash Handling System defined in 1.1 (a),1.1(b) and 1.1(c) along with Notes to Clause 
no.  1.1 
d. Commissioning works of Ash Handling System defined in 1.1 (a),1.1(b) and 1.1(c) along with Notes to 
Clause no.  1.1 
e. Civil works: Experience of having successfully completed similar works in the  last 10 years from the 
last day of month previous to one in which NIT has been invited and should be either of the following:- 
 
(i) Three similar completed works costing not less than INR 66.10 Crores  
or 
(ii) Two similar completed works costing not less than INR 82.70 Crores 
or 
(iii) One similar completed work costing not less than INR 132.30 Crores 
Similar works mentioned above mean Civil works necessarily involving earthwork & RCC associated 
with Power / Steel / Oil & Gas/ Petro -chemical/ Fertilizer/ Flue Gas Desulphurization / Cement  
and/or any other process industry. The Civil works referred above is excluding structural steel works. 
 
All the Consortium partners shall identify one of the partners as the “lead partner”. Lead partner shall 
necessarily meet the requirement of 1.4(b). 
 
The Consortium will be required to furnish a legally enforceable Consortium Agreement among all 
 
 
partners along with Techno-commercial Bid holding themselves responsible and liable to the Owner 
to perform all contractual obligations related to their respective scope as declared in Consortium 
Agreement (limited joint and several responsibility), valid for a period of seven (7) years from the date 
of formation of the Consortium or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract whichever is 
later, as per the format enclosed in the bidding documen ts. However, the lead partner of the 
consortium shall be jointly & severally responsible and liable to the Owner to perform all contractual 
obligations including the contractual obligations of all other consortium partners. Submission of 
Consortium Agreement is a mandatory requirement, and non-submission shall lead to rejection of the 
bid.  
 
 
Notes for Clause 1.4 
 
(i) Consortium partners should be corporate entities registered in India under the Companies Act 2013. 
 
(ii) Consortium partners shall collectively be required to furnish “Contract Performance Security” as specified 
in bidding documents regardless of their share and role in the Consortium. However, out of total “Contract 
Performance Security”, each Consortium partner shall necessarily furnish at least 5% of the “Contract 
Performance Security” as specified in bidding documents. 
 
(iii) Consortium partners (including the lead partner) shall collectively be required to submit additional Bank 
Guarantees (BGs) for a total amount of 2% of total contract price as specified in bidding documents for 
successful integration of scope of package. Ho wever, each Consortium partner shall necessarily furnish 
Bank Guarantees (BGs) for at least 0.1% of the total contract price for successful integration/interfacing. 
 
(iv) In case, Lead Partner of Bidding consortium is taking care of 'Erection works' and/or 'Commissioning 
works' on its own as defined in subclauses of 1.4, Lead Partner will also be considered qualified if it has 
supervised erection and/or supervised commissio ning in reference project  of ash handling systems for 
clause 1.4(c) and 1.4(d) respectively. 
 
(v) No Consortium partner shall participate as an independent bidder, or as partner of other Consortium or  as 
a Associate /Collaborator to other bidder . No Consortium partner shall also be a promoter/stakeholder of 
any other entity who is directly/indirectly participating in the bidding process. Notwithstanding stated herein 
above, the provisions regarding conflict of interest stated in bidding documents shall prevail. 
 
(vi) The Lead partner shall be authorized to incur liabilities and receive instructions for and on behalf of any 
and all partners of the Consortium. 
 
(vii) The value of executed civil works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at current price level by 
adding 5% for each completed year (total number of days/365) after the end date of 
completion/execution/commissioning of the reference work, till th e last day of month previous to one in 
which NIT has been invited. The specified value of executed works is excluding any taxes and duties. 
 
(viii) The word “executed” means:  
 
a. In case of Project(s), the project(s) should have been commissioned/ completed, even if the contract 
has been started earlier and / or is not completed / closed.  
 
b. In case of Contract(s), the scope of work under the contract(s) should have been 
commissioned/completed, even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not closed. 
 
 
2.0 Financial Criteria: 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder   
2.1.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of techno-
commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 306 Crore (Indian Rupees Three Hundred Six Crore only) 
or in equivalent foreign currency. 
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding 
Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth 
of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along 
with Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holdin g Company, supported by the Holding 
 
 
Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.1.2  The Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less than 100% 
(hundred percent) of its paid-up share capital. In case the Bidder does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its 
own, it can meet the requirement o f Net Worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding Company wherever applicable. In such a case, however, the Net 
Worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Sub sidiary (ies) of the Holding 
Company, in a combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid -up share 
capital. However individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 75% ( seventy-five percent) of their 
respective paid-up share capitals.  
 Net Worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 Net Worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3)/ (Y1+Y2+Y3) x 100  
 Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net Worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up share 
capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity basis, the 
unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder 
further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification:  
(i)  Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies of the audited 
consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.  
(ii)  A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the consolidated 
annual financial statements of the Holding Company.  
 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid opening 
are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to  submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of the three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Fu rther, a certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bid documents stating that the 
financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening and 
the Certificate from the practicin g Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
2.2.0 Financial Criteria for Collaborator/Associate/QAHPM  
2.2.1  For Bidder seeking qualification through Clause No  1.2, the  average annual turnover of the 
Collaborator/Associate, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid 
opening, should not be less than the amount specified below 
 
i) ₹ 31 Crore only (Indian Rupees Thirty -One Crore only)  or in equivalent foreign currency for 
Collaborator/ Associate for Pneumatic Fly Ash Handling System for Conveying (meeting requirement of 
Clause 1.1 (a) above. 
 
ii) ₹ 31 Crore only (Indian Rupees Thirty -One Crore only) or in equivalent foreign currency for 
Collaborator/ Associate for Pneumatic Fly ash Transportation System (meeting requirement of Clause 
1.1(b) above. 
 
iii) ₹ 31 Crore only (Indian Rupees Thirty -One Crore only) or in equivalent foreign currency for 
Collaborator/ Associate for High Concentration Slurry disposal system (meeting requirement of Clause 1.1 
(c) above. 
In case Bidder collaborates/associates with a single firm for more than one system as above then the average 
annual turnover of such firm shall not be less than the sum of the turnovers specified above for the systems for 
which the Bidder is collaborating/associating with the firm. 
 
2.2.2 For Bidder seeking qualification through Clause No 1.3, the average annual turnover of QAHPM, in the 
preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
₹ 31 Crore only (Indian Rupees Thirty-One Crore only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
2.2.3  Applicable for Clause 2.2.1 and Clause 2.2.2: 
a) In case a Collaborator/Associate does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above 
on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
 
 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Collaborator/Associate would be required to furnish along with its Techno -Commercial bid, a  Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per 
the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the Collaborator/Associate in case of award.  
 
b) The Net Worth of the Collaborator/Associate as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not 
be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid-up share capital. In case the Collaborator/Associate does 
not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its ow n, it can meet the requirement of Net Worth based on the 
strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding Company 
wherever applicable. In such a case, however, the Net Worth of the Collaborator/Associate and its 
Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid-up share capital.  
 
However individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 75% ( seventy-five percent) of their 
respective paid-up share capital.  
 
Net Worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net Worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3)/ (Y1+Y2+Y3) x 100  
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net Worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up 
share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
 
c) In case the Collaborator/Associate is not able to  furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator/Associate can be 
considered acceptable provided the Collaborator/Associate further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification: 
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator/Associate along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated annual financial statements of the Holding Company. 
 
 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid opening are 
not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Collaborator/Associa te is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of the three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financi al parameters. Further, a 
certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bid documents stating that 
the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
2.3.0  Financial Criteria for the Consortium (as per Route 1.4) 
2.3.1  The average annual turnover of the consortium collectively, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the 
date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 306 Crore (Indian Rupees Three Hundred 
Six Crore only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
 Further, average annual turnover of the lead partner of the consortium in the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening shall not be less than  51% of the total annual turnover 
requirement specified for consortium as above. Further, other Consortium Partner should individually meet at 
least 10% of the total annual turnover requirement specified for consortium as above. 
 For meeting financial criteria, all the Consortium partners shall consider the same set of three consecutive 
Financial Years. 
2.3.2  Net worth of each Consortium partner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of it’s  paid-up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case any consortium partner does not meet the Net 
worth criteria on its own, it can meet the  requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) 
and/or Holding Compan y and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, 
however the Net worth of the consortium partner and its Subsidiary(i es) and/or Holding Company  and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) 
 
 
of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy 
five percent) of their respective paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up share 
capitals and Y1, Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.3.3  In case any consortium partner is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity basis, 
the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium  partner can be considered acceptable 
provided the consortium partner furnishes the following further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i)  Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium partner along with copies 
of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of the consortium partner. 
(ii)  A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the  bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of  the consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company of the consortium partner. 
 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid opening are 
not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered  Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, the consortium partner(s) is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the finan cial parameters. Further, a Certificate would  
be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating  that the financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening and the Certificate 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
NOTES:  
i) Net worth means the sum of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all reserves 
credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the 
revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance 
of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
 
ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.  
 
iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies 
Act 2013.  
 
iv) For annual turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to the date 
of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 