NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPARTMENT 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
SECTION-I  
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
NIT NO. 9900325199 
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_108661_1 
NAME OF WORK 
Interior Acoustic Treatment, Electrical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, HVAC, 
Audio Video, Stage Furnishing, Stage Effect Lighting Systems and 
Miscellaneous Civil Works of Auditorium at NTPC Nabinagar NSTPP. 
 
1.0 NTPC invites on -line bids on Single Stage T wo Envelope Bidding basis  (Envelope-I: Techno-commercial 
Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from Eligible Bidders for aforesaid package- as per the scope of work briefly 
mentioned hereinafter. 
 
Brief Scope of  Work: The scope of work under this contract i ncludes: Interior Acoustic Treatment, 
Electrical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, HVAC, Audio Video, Stage Furnishing, Stage Effect Lighting 
Systems and Miscellaneous Civil Works of Auditorium at NTPC Nabinagar NSTPP 
    
as per BOQ, detailed scope of work, Specificati on, Terms and Conditions, drawings and instruction of 
Engineer-in-Charge as detailed in the tender documents. 
 
     
Project/Station where work to be executed: NTPC Nabinagar 
 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Domestic Commercial Borrowings / Own sources. 
 
2.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the bidding  document, 
which are available for examination and sale at our e  Procurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following details & schedule: 
 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group-1, Raipur 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT  
NIT Date 29.05.2026; 12:39 Hrs. 
Document Download Commencement Date & 
Time 
29.05.2026; 14:00 Hrs. 
Last date for receipt of queries fr om bidders (if 
any) 
09.06.2026; 16:00 Hrs. 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission 15.06.2026; 16:00 Hrs. 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 16.06.2026; 16:00 Hrs. 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately.  
Estimated Cost floated for tender  Rs. 8,67,19,733.79 (Excluding GST) 
Rs. 10,23,29,285.87 (Including GST) 
 
Owner Issue Material: NIL 
Cost of Bidding Documents (Tender fee)  Nil  
Completion Period  12 months 
Bid Security/EMD  Rs. 10,00,000.00 (Rs. 10 Lakh only) 
 
Refer clause 3 regar ding submission/ deposition 
of EMD. 
 
Exemption is not allowed. 
INTEGRITY PACT NOT APPLICABLE  
Benefit to MSME This is a WORKS CONTRACT. MSE Benefit is   
NOT APPLICABLE for the Package.  
Pre-Bid Conference Date/TIME  
 
Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Purchase Preference to Local 
Suppliers/Preference to  Make in India 
Class-I local suppliers only are eligible to 
participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date 
of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the  Bidders shall  submit “ Techno-Commercial Proposal” and 
“Price Proposal” online (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within the bid submission date and time. 
Only Techno -Commercial proposals will be opened on the date and timed mentioned  above or 
corrigendum/s(if any) thereof.  
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app 
  
Corrigendum (if any) and  extension of date (if any) , shall be available on our e -tender website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
 
3.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security Deposit  / EMD in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
documents in Clause 10 of Bid Data Sheet (BDS)- Sec III.  
 
       Additional option for submission of BG directly from the banker is also provided- REFER BDS-SECTION 
III Clause no 7.0 A, for further details. 
 
Online facility for submitting the bid security is enabled. 
 
Bid Security/  EMD up to Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees TWO Lac only) must be paid 
online through GePNIC portal ONLY. 
 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e -BG through 
NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e -BG, due to some practical difficulties or constraints, 
physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG/ Insurance Surety bond as bid security, if 
opted for, should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for 
correspondence (Clause-16 hereunder) before the bid submission deadline in physical form and  
scanned copy of BG / Insurance Surety  must be uploaded in the FEE folder in the tendering 
portal. 
 
EMD is not exempted in this tender being a works contract. Bidders are advised NOT to upl oad 
MSE/other document for availing exemption. Bids without adequate Bid Security, as per tender 
provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
 
4.0 Bidder has to ensure t he following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 11 read in 
conjunction with relevant provisions in bid data sheet, failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: Not Applicable 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security  
 
c) Integrity Pact (if applicable- REFER BDS-SECTION III FOR FURTHER DETAILS) 
 
All bids must be acco mpanied by Tender Fees (Cost of Bidding Documents),  Bid Security (EMD) and 
Integrity Pact (if applicable) AS PER TENDER PROVISIONS. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN  ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY AS PER TENDER 
PROVISIONS SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE.  
 
IN CASE, BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER 
(EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN 
THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
  
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS: 
 
The bidder who wis hes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated here under     
  
 
5.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
5.1.1  The bidder should have executed at lea st one order of “Supply, Installation 
and commissioning" of “Audio -Visual System" for “Auditor ium Theatre/ 
Cinema Hall/ Multiplex/ Planetarium/ institution/ commercial office / non -
residential building” within preceding seven (07) years reckoned as on the date 
of Techno commercial Bid opening. 
 
5.1.2  The bidder should have executed “Fixed Interior” and/ or “Acoustic work” for 
“Auditorium Theatre/ Cinema Hall/ Multiplex/ Planetarium/ institution/ 
commercial office/ non-residential building” within preceding seven (07) years 
reckoned as on the date of Techno commercial Bid opening for an executed value 
not less than Rs. 694 Lakhs (Rupees Six Crore and Ninety - Four Lakhs) 
Cumulatively in maximum Three (03) Contracts.   
 
Notes for Clause 5.1 above: 
 
1. For 1.1 & 1.2 above, one reference work shall mean the work executed at one 
premises/ campus through a single contract. 
 
2. For 1.2 above, Cost of HVAC System, fire Alarm / fire Protection / fire -fighting 
System, Interior work, associated Electrical Works, Audio -Visual System,  
Furniture / Furnishing, Plumbing Work, Stage Lighting Work if forms part of the 
reference work, the same shall also be considered for arriving at the cost of the 
work. 
 
3. Bidder can submit same or different reference work in support of their claim to 
comply qualification criteria 1.1 & 1.2 above. 
 
4. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the b idder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
 
5. In case of orders under ex ecution, the value of work executed prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening duly ce rtified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
 
6. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub -contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by 
owner specifying the scope of work executed  by the sub -contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements. 
 
7. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall 
be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the 
break – up of basic value and taxes. 
 
8. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture / 
Consortium / Associate can also be considered provided: 
 
A. The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures / 
consortium / Associate is clearly defined  in the executed joint venture 
agreement / consortium agreement/ deed of joint undertaking and the 
bidder's scope of work and break -up of quantities executed by t hem as 
individual contribution in the joint Venture / Consortium / Associate, duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority/Owner, meet the relevant provisions of 
eligibility criteria. 
 
B. In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated 
joint venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break -up of quantities 
between the p artners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture 
Agreement, then for establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria above, 
the credit of e xecuted quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio of 
bidder's share in the integrated joint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder 
establishes that it regularly undertakes works mentioned in QR. The 
executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture shall be duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority/owner. 
 
5.2 Financial Criteria: 
 
5.2.1  The Average Annual Financial Turnover (AATO) of the bidder during preceding 
three (03) consecutive financial years as on the date of Techno - Commercial bid 
opening should not be less than Rs. 867 Lakhs (Rupees Eight Crore Sixty -Seven 
Lakh only). 
 
5.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 2.1 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at Cl. No. 2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such 
Holding Company a s on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In such 
an event, the Bidder  would be required to furnish along with its Techno - 
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking f rom the Holding Company, supported by 
the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Bid 
Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the contract by the bidder in case of award. 
 
5.2.3 Net wor th of bidder shall not be less than 100% of the bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder meets 
the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding company and /or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies wherever 
applicable, the Net worth of the Bidders and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner 
should not be less than 100% of their total paid up  share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid 
up share capitals. For Consortiums/Joint Ventures, wher ever applicable, the Net 
worth of all consortium/ Joint Venture members in combined manner sho uld not 
be less than 100% of their paid up share capital. However individually, their Net 
worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined)=(x1+x2+x3)/(y1+y2+y3)x100 
 
where x1, x2, x3 are individual net worth which shall not be less than 75% 
(seventy five percent) of the respective paid up share capitals and y1, y2, y3 are 
individual paid up share capitals. 
 
 
5.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furn ish its audited financial statements on stand -
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company. 
 
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements 
of the Holding Company. 
 
5.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno -
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder 
is not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
its financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results of 
the company are under audit as on the date of Techno commercial bid opening 
and the certificate fro m the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 5.2 above: 
 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free reserves.  
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of th e 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not  
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
6.0 NOTE: E -Tendering Portal is capturing and showing the IP addresses used by th e Buyer and the 
Bidder(s) /  Seller(s). The received bids having matching/common IP address with either Bidder(s)/  
Seller(s) or Buyer, shall be outrightly rejected & shall not be considered for further evaluation. 
 
7.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the  Employer reserves the right to assess the credentials/ 
capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ subsidiaries / group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the 
Employer.  
 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be limited to the 
assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of credentials . A 
negative determination of  such assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of 
the bid 
 
8.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
Further it is hereby certified that all the guidelines circ ulated by NTPC in pursuance of Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India) ‘PPP -MII’ Orders of DPIIT/MoP have been complied for the 
tendered package and NIT. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Biddi ng Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned 
in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, an y bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid 
only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countrie s (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT  for the subject package 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action.  
 
11.0 NTPC reserve s right to amend any bid/tender  conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS 
published in the portal AT ANY TIME. NTPC also reserves the right to extend/change the bidding 
schedule through publishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the sit uation demand so AT 
ANY TIME. The corrigendum as decided by NTPC and deeme d fit would be published in the portal as per 
provisions therein. This prevails over the relevant provisions else where in   the bid document. The 
corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be 
assumed that the information co ntained therein have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. 
Bidders are advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendums, if any. 
 
12.0 Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is c onsidered to be qualified. 
Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of Bidder’s 
representatives who choose to attend the bid opening. 
 
13.0 The bid document consists of the followings:  
 
SI Name of Documents 
1 Section-I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
2 Section-II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  
3 Section-III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
4 Section-IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
5 Section-V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
6 Section-VI Technical Specifications/Scope of Work , Drawings, Quality Plans 
etc. 
7 Section-VII BOQ / Price Bid 
8 Section-VIII Forms and Procedures 
9 Attachment-3 (QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT DATA SHEET) 
10 Integrity Pact (if applicable) 
 
14.0 IMPORTANT NOTES FOR THE TENDER: 
 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET with Appendices & annexures (ATTACHED separately for 
the package as bid document) is to be filled up properly as per format given for the stipulated 
QR parameters and to be submitted in the bid at appropriate file/folder pro vided for the 
purpose. The reference works whose details have been declared in Attachment -3 AND/OR in the 
submitted bid  shall only be considered  to ascertain the bidder's compliance with the specified 
qualifying Requirement (QR).  
 
LATEST PROVISIONS FOR “ AUTHENTICATION OF VERACITY OF DOCUMENTS SUBMIT TED 
BY THE BIDDER IN SUPPORT OF  QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT” HAS BEEN INCORPORATED 
IN CLAUSE NO 6.2 OF Bid Data Sheet (Section III- BDS). AUTHENTICATED DOCUMENTS (AS 
APPLICABLE- from Independent Statutory Auditor of BIDDER/ or specified Third -Party 
Inspection Agency (TPIA)) IN LINE WITH THE SAID PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED. 
 
Further Appendices & annexures/ declarations attached  into Attachment -3; relevant to the 
bidders as per format are also to be submitted.  
 
b) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONED IN Bid Data Sheet  (Section III- BDS) 
shall amend and/or supplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidders (Secti on II - ITB). 
Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
c) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section -V, shall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section-IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a conflict, 
the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
 
d) UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a M ember of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of  compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
 It is mandatory to mention UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) by the  bidders while 
submitting audited financial statements, other CA certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI 
gazette notification dt. 02.08.2019. 
 
e) THIS IS A NO DEVIATION TENDER, WHICH MEANS - NO DEVIATION, W HATSOEVER, IS 
PERMITTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO ANY PROVISIONS OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS. 
 
 GTE PROVISION IN THE BID SUBMISSION PROCESS IN TENDERING PLATFORM IS TO BE 
ACCEPTED FOR NO DEVIATION/ FULL COMPLIANCE TO THE BID DOCUMENTS. 
ACCEPTANCE TO THE SAID GTE WOULD CONFIR M THAT THE BIDDER HAVE ACCEPTED 
ALL THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE BID DOCUMENT. 
 
 
15.0 The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by 
any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be 
required to register on the website. 
  
         First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Users whose email address has not 
been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first time users not allo tted any vendor code by 
NTPC, should send a copy of the registration details to the e-mail address specified in this NIT under 
Address for Communication with following details at least three working days prior to Technical 
Opening Date: 
  
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form (refer Section VIII) duly verified by bank  
 
16.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
  
17.0 Address for Communication 
DGM / AGM (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492018 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515568 / 0771-2515240 
 
Email: pankajkumar07@ntpc.co.in   / rhshankarrao@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
            
Registered Office:  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
18.0 Important Instruction for this Tender: - 
 
Agencies are advised to familiarize themselves with the site conditions prior to submitting their 
offers.  
 