 
ABRIDGED INVITATION FOR BIDS                   
 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 3200 MWH BESS CAPACITY BY NGEL AT 
NTPC REL FATEHGARH SOLAR PLANT 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
  
IFB No.: NGEL-CS-5787-004(BESS1)-9      Date:   29.05.2026 
 
NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED (N GEL) invites online bids from eligible bidders on 
Single Stage Two Envelope (i.e. Envelope -I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: 
Price Bid) basis, followed by Reverse Auction for “EPC PACKAGE FOR 
DEVELOPMENT OF 3200 MWH BESS CAPACITY  BY NGEL AT NTPC REL 
FATEHGARH SOLAR PLANT”. 
  
For the detailed IFB , please visit https://www.bharat-electronictender.com or 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  or https://www.ngel.in or https://www.ntpc.co.in or may 
contact: 
 
Sr. Manager (CS) / AGM (CS) 
NTPC Green Energy Limited 
4th Floor, NETRA Building E-3,  
Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA,  
Pin-201306  
Mobile No. +91-7637011073  
E-mail: madhusmritidevchoudhry@ntpc.co.in/ rajandwivedi@ntpc.co.in  
  
Document Sale Start Date and Time :05.06.2026, 17:00 hrs  
Document Sale Closing Date and Time : 15.06.2026, upto 17:00 hrs 
Bid Submission End Date and Time : 25.06.2026 upto 14:00 hrs 
Bid Opening Date and Time : 25.06.2026 at 14:30 hrs 
 
Registered Office:  
NTPC Green Energy Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003,  
Corporate Identification Number (NGEL): L40100DL2022GOI396282,  
Website: www.ngel.in 
 
 
 
Brief Scope of Work for EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 3200 MWH BESS CAPACITY BY 
NGEL AT NTPC REL FATEHGARH SOLAR PLANT 
 
SCOPE OF WORK:  The scope of work covers the following activities and services in respect of all the 
equipment & works specified and covered under the specifications and read in conjunction with “Scope of 
Supply & services” specified in Technical Specifications 
  
1.01 Project is divided into three blocks with location as follows: 
Table 01: 
Blocks Location BESS Capacity* 
Block-1 NTPC REL Fatehgarh, Rajasthan 300 MW /1200 MWh 
Block-2 NTPC REL Fatehgarh, Rajasthan 300 MW /1200 MWh 
Block-3 NTPC REL Fatehgarh, Rajasthan 200 MW /800 MWh 
Note:  
Each BESS Block shall be connected at 33 kV Level of designated Solar Plants as indicated in the Detailed 
Technical Specification and Tender SLD.  
* “BESS capacity” mentioned in Table 01, above, is the deliverable capacity to be demonstrated by Bidder 
at the time of COD at the Point of Interconnection (POI).  
Bidder needs to consider the aux consumption of the BESS Plant(s) in addition to other losses during 
discharge to arrive at the Discharge capacity of the BESS Plant(s). 
 
1.02 Design, Engineering, Supply, Packing and Forwarding, Transportation, Unloading, Storage, 
Installation and Commissioning of grid connected Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) on turnkey 
basis. 
1.03 Unloading at respective site s, Supervision of Erection, Testing, Commissioning, Integration of 
above equipment with BoS Infra  to commission a complete BESS system integrated with Solar 
plant(s) and grid shall be included in scope of bidder.  
1.04 Design life of BESS system including that of battery shall be of 25 years (with degraded capacity 
as per bidder’s proposal considering  daily single cycle operation) from the date of 
commissioning. 
1.05 Batteries offered shall be rated for minimum 10,000 cycles of operation.  
1.06 The BESS Supplier shall take into consideration following loss parameters beyond the termination 
point and up to POI while sizing the nameplate capacity of the BESS for each Block:   
Head Loss to be considered in sizing 
Power Trafo Losses 1% 
Transmission Line Losses 0.25% 
 
1.07 Bidder will guarantee minimum 92 % of dispatchable capacity at POI across all 15 years starting 
with 100 % of rated dispatchable capacity (as mentioned above)  at CoD and 95 % for first year. 
Dispatchable capacity at the time of handover shall be minimum 92%. 
1.08 Any augmentation required for meeting above criteria shall be included in scope of bidder. 
 
Bidder to ensure that the minimum nameplate rated installed capacity for each BESS Block shall be 
at least 110% of the MWh Capacity mentioned under “BESS Capacity” in Table 01, above.  
 
1.09 Comprehensive O&M including associated warranty, annual maintenance contract (Service Level 
Agreement) to maintain performance of BESS for period of 15 years shall be included in scope of 
bidder.  
1.10 Minimum monthly Round Trip Efficiency (RTE)  shall be 80% including auxiliary consumption  
(Measured at Termination point/Point of Coupling) 
 
1.11 Annual availability to be maintained is 98%. Detailed Availability requirements and other details 
will be mentioned in detailed specifications. 
 
1.12 BESS capacity offered shall be suitable for meeting deliverable capacity at POI including reactive 
power compensation.  
 
1.13 Grid compliance study  for complete project ( designated Solar + BESS + Power Evacuation)  is 
included in scope of bidder. However, inputs for conducting grid power study to be provided by 
owner for Solar & Power evacuation package . Grid compliance study , if required, for each 
augmentation shall be in scope of bidder. 
 
1.14 Power quality compliance for entire designated Solar + BESS + Power Evacuation system up to grid 
interconnection point (POI) at ISTS switchyard is included in scope of bidder.  
 
1.15 Aux supply system for the BESS Plant(s) from 33 kV termination point/Point of Coupling shall be in 
the scope of Bidder. The aux supply required for Battery Container at site up to final commissioning 
shall be also in the scope of Bidder.  Bidder to ensure the delivery of items at site and other works 
related to BESS plant(s) accordingly. 
 
1.16 Bidder shall design the system in such a way that during non -Solar hours the standby aux 
consumption of the BESS Plant(s) shall be in the scope of Bidder . Accordingly, the Bidder should 
design its BESS capacity for the entire contract period. 
 
1.17 Required bus extension work and any other associated work for integrating BESS plant into the 33 
kV Switchgear of each designated Solar Plant shall be in the scope of Bidder. 
 
1.18 During operation of the BESS Plant(s), in case of grid failure, emergency supply requirement for 
BESS Plant(s) shall be in the scope of Bidder. 
 
1.19 DSM Charges applicable corresponding to the metering and scheduling of BESS Plant(s) and 
attributable to Bidder shall be paid by bidder, during the Contract duration. 
 
1.20 Bidder shall carry out Engineering to execution works of civil, erection, installation and 
commissioning work of all the supplied equipment and equipment system(s). 
 
1.21 Bidder shall provide engineering drawings, data, process calculations, test procedures, Equipment 
layout, Drawings/Data sheets of bought out items, Performance & Guarantee Test procedure etc  
for review and approval of owner. 
 
1.22  Provide documentation for des ign and expected performance through design calculations, 
software, design drawings, equipment drawings, and modifications to the existing drawings.  
 
1.23 Complete manufacturing including conducting all type, routine and acceptance tests , Pre-
assembly, (if any), testing, pre -commissioning and commissioning and putting into satisfactory 
operation all the equipment including successful completion of initial operation. 
 
1.24 Scope shall include EMS configuration to operate BESS at various modes as per Grid requirement 
mentioned in specification and integrated operation with Solar plant(s) and Plant(s) Scheduling as 
per Grid/RLDC requirement during O&M. EMS Scope shall include the BESS to be operated as per 
charging from Grid and with future provision to be integrated with Solar Plant(s). Further details 
shall be shared during detailed specification. 
 
1.25 Develop detailed start up and site acceptance plan. Reliability and Functional/Performance 
guarantee tests after successful completion of commissioning. 
 
1.26 Provide training for the operators, engineers, technicians, and maintenance personnel. 
 
1.27 Special tools and tackles, if any, required for maintenance of the plant(s) 
 
1.28 BESS should be in line with latest guidelines of CEA, CERC and LDC. BMS, EMS, Fire Safety of the 
BESS should comply with the latest IS or/and IEC or/and IEEE standards  and guidelines issued by 
statutory authorities. Fire safety of the Battery and contain er should be in line with latest Indian 
or/and international standards.  
 
1.29 All equipment, materials and services, whether explicitly stated or otherwise and that are 
necessary for the satisfactory operation of the BESS system and all material & services required for 
its integration with owner’s system at 33 KV, as described in the specification shall be deemed to 
be included in the scope of work.  
 
1.30 Further the bidder has to obtain site -specific data from the owner in preparation for developing 
installation and implementation plans. All other details will be provided in the IFB. 
 
Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical features/specification of equipment/ 
systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Document shall be final and binding.  
 
 TERMINAL POINT/ Point of Coupling (POC) 
The terminal point/ Point of Coupling (POC)  under the scope of this assignment shall be up to 
commissioning and Integration with Owner’s 33 KV pooling switchgear. Extension of owner pooling 
switchgear, to be considered in the scope of Bidder with all material & services. 