1  
  
 
 
NTPC LTD 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
C&M, CPG-1, USSC NTPC RAIPUR 
 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER 
 
NIT NO : 9900325810 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against this Bid 
Document No. / Specification and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise 
used for purposes other than that for which it is specifically issued). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2  
SECTION-I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS/NOTICE INVITING TENDER (IFB/NIT) 
 
'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The 
bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their 
bids." 
 
1.0 NTPC Ltd, CPG-1, C&M department, Raipur invites online bids on SINGLE STAGE two envelope basis from 
approved bidders for aforesaid Package as per the Scope of Work mentioned below: 
2.0 Brief Details: 
 
2.1 BID NO  NIT No : 9900325810 
2.2 Description of work: Deployment of Security guards at NTPC Gadarwara for two 
years.  
2.3 Source of NIT CPG-1, C&M (Raipur), NTPC Ltd. 
2.4 Contract Classification Service contract 
2.5 Approved Cost Estimate (INR) INR 2,85,88,756.40/- excluding GST 
 
INR 3,37,34,732.55/- including GST@18% 
 
Owner Issue Materials- NIL 
2.6 Last Date and Time for Bid 
Submission 
All the critical dates are as per Gepnic Portal. 
2.7 Last Query Date All the critical dates are as per Gepnic Portal. 
2.8 Bid Opening Date & Time All the critical dates are as per Gepnic Portal. 
2.9    Tender Fee Not Applicable 
  2.10  Bid Security/EMD 
 
INR 5,00,000/- (Rs. Five Lakhs Only). 
 
EMD exemption  is applicable in the subject NIT for MSE 
Registered Bidders under UDYAM Only. 
2.12 INTEGRITY PACT  
 
Not Applicable 
2.13 EVALUATION OVERALL LUMPSUM BASIS 
2.14 Whether Joint 
Venture/Consortium Permitted? 
NO 
2.15 Whether Associate/Collaborator 
permitted? 
NO 
2.16 MSE Benefits in Award & EMD  Applicable 
 
 Benefits under PPP 2012 for MSEs are applicable only 
for (a) Goods produced and (b) Services provided by 
MSEs. In this regard, OM dated 9.11.2016 and its 
subsequent amendment/clarifications issued by MSME 
from time to time regarding definition of Goods and 
Services may be referred. MSE benefits shall not be 
applicable to Trader/Dealer of Goods. Further, MSE 
benefits shall also not be applicable for Works 
Contracts. 
 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) having Udyam 
Registration only for Goods produced and Services 
3  
rendered shall only be eligible for MSE benefits. 
 
 In case of an upward change in terms of investment in 
plant and machinery or equipment or turnover or both, 
and consequent re-classification, an enterprise shall 
continue to avail of all non-tax benefits of the category 
(micro or small or medium) it was in before the re-
classification, for a period of three years from the date 
of such upward change. 
 
 The benefits to the participating Service Providers 
under PPP 2012 shall be applicable irrespective of 
product (Goods / Services) categories for which 
bidder is registered as MSE. 
 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) who are holding valid Udyam Registration and are 
manufacturer of the offered Product or Service (Primary Product / Service - in case of bunch 
bid with total value wise evaluation) and give specific confirmation to this effect at the time 
of bid submission and claim EMD exemption and whose credentials are validated online 
through Udyam Registration website of Ministry of MSME and also through supporting 
document uploaded during bidding process and validated by the Buyer. 
 
Therefore, for availing exemption Benefit in EMD and Award, Bidders are requested to 
submit only “UDYAM REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE”. Other MSE related documents like 
“Udyog Aadhar Memorandum (UAM) or “NSIC certificate” etc or any other certificate issued 
by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises as per MSMED Act 2006, for goods 
produced and services rendered will not be considered as a MSE exemption certificate. 
 
2.17 Make in India Policy 
 
APPLICABLE (For details refer ITB) 
 
'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, 
as defined in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids." 
 
2.18 Preference to Class-I Local Suppliers Class-I Local Suppliers only are eligible to participate in this 
tender.  
2.19 Contract Period Contract period shall be 24 (Twenty-Four) Months from date 
of Start. 
 
The contract may be extended up to a period of 03 (Three) 
months on same rates, terms and conditions of PO on 
mutual agreement basis. 
2.20 Splitting of quantity (MSE) Not allowed 
2.21 Reverse auction Not Applicable 
2.22 Mobilization Period 07 days from Issue of LOA (Tentatively) 
2.23 Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
2.25 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security as stipulated in the Bidding documents. 
 
"ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE 
BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT)/ 
INSURANCE SURETY BOND, BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT/ 
INUSRANCE SURETY BOND EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING 
PORTAL” 
2.26 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
4  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects.  
2.26 Amount linked to safety aspects/ compliance to safety rules: As per GCC 20.7 and SCC Cl. 09 
3.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT FOR PARTCIPATING BIDDERS :  
 The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they 
fulfill the following Qualifying Requirements: 
 
3.1 TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
  
3.1.1 The Bidder should possess a valid licence from the respective State Controlling 
Authority of the Government under the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) (PSAR) Act 
2005. 
 
3.1.2 The bidder should have executed the work(s) of "Providing Security Services" with 
any organisation, within the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening in any of the following manner. 
 
a. One (1) order having executed value not less than Rs. 114 lakh 
OR 
b. Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 71 lakh each 
OR 
c. Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 57 lakh each 
 
 Notes for Clause 3.1 & 3.1A above: 
 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date 
of Techno- Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by 
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements. 
4. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only 
shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide 
the break – up of basic value and taxes. 
5. PSARA License shall be verified through the central or state ‘Private Security 
Agency Licensing portal’. 
 
3.2 FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
  
3.2.1) The Average Annual Financial Turnover (AATO) of the bidder during preceding 
5  
three (03) consecutive financial years as on the date of Techno - Commercial bid 
opening should not be less than Rs.143 Lakh (Rupees One crore and Forty-
Three Lakhs only). 
3.2.2)  In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl no 3.2.1 
above on its own,  its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at Cl No 3.2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such 
Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such 
an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno- 
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the 
Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
3.2.3) In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements 
on stand-alone entity basis , the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the 
bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification: 
·  Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company. 
 
·  A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of 
the Holding Company. 
 
3.2.4) In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results 
certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial years preceding the 
last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per 
the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results 
of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
  3.3   NOTES for Clause 3.2 above: 
 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, 
write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance 
6  
of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted 
or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India. 
4 Please refer ITB 5.4 and Attachment-3: submit all the documents in support of 
Technical Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work 
Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for 
authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-
Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
a) Proprietorship and Partnership Firms are required to submit 
Undertaking/Certificate of authenticity from Third Party Inspection Agency 
(TPIA) only.  
 
b) Bidder as Company can submit   Certification/Undertaking for authenticity of 
documents either from Independent Statutory Auditor of their company or from 
specified TPIA.   
 
c) If any of the Submitted Reference work executed by Bidder are directly awarded 
to them by NTPC or Subsidiary / JV companies of NTPC ;  then for those reference 
works only  , Bidder shall not be required to submit  Client Certificate (s) or 
Certificate of  authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor or specified TPIA.    
 
d) The undertaking/Certificate of   authenticity issued from   Independent Statutory 
Auditor or specified TPIA   submitted   for any reference work/s in earlier   tender/s 
floated from NTPC;  can be submitted by the bidder in the present tender or 
any  future tenders subject to fulfilment of QR criteria as stipulated in NIT. The same 
would be acceptable subject to conditions mentioned at NOTE at A) above.   
 
e) Further if any of the reference work submitted in the present tender, have already 
been submitted and verified/accepted  by NTPC in earlier tender/s , details of   NIT 
no, tender inviting authority etc of that   earlier tender/s are to be filled up by the 
bidder in Attachment-3 of the present tender. The same may  be accepted for the 
purpose of authenticity, subject to confirmations & fulfilment of qualifying 
requirement of the present tender.   
 
f) However, if required by NTPC, the bidder shall have 
to   submit Undertaking/Certificate of   authenticity issued from   Independent 
Statutory Auditor or specified TPIA   for any of the reference work(s) submitted in 
earlier tender.    
 
g) Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess 
the credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ 
subsidiaries / group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances 
warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer.   
 
h) The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include 
but not be limited to the assessment/verifications  of office/ facilities/ banker's/ 
submitted reference works in lieu of credentials. A negative determination of such 
assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid.  
 
 * Note: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and 
P&L Account (wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of 
7  
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of 
compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document 
Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
4.0 A The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be 
considered to ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying 
Requirement (QR). The Employer at its discretion may seek any clarification and/or 
documentary evidence only for the reference works as mentioned their Bid. However, 
no change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant for 
conforming to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or 
permitted”. 
 
While submitting the ON-LINE BID : 
 
Acceptance of Following conditions are specified in the GTE : 
 
1.0 Confirmation that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL CONTENT included in the PACKAGE FOR 
COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT requirements of the tender. 
2.0 Acceptance of NTPC Safety Rules 
3.0 Acceptance of NTPC Fraud Prevention Policy 
4.0 Acceptance of Policy of Debarment from Business Dealings of NTPC 
5.0 Certification for Full compliance on clause as per tender documents on “Restrictions on procurement from 
a Bidder of a country which shares a land border with India”. 
6.0 Acceptance of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy of NTPC 
7.0 Compliance to All Provisions of Bidding Documents (NIL Deviation Certificate) 
i) Acceptance of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy of NTPC 
ii) Acceptance of compliance to Clause “Conflict of Interest 
iii) Any other condition, if mentioned in GTE, requiring any confirmation/information are to be ticked/filled 
up suitably. 
 
By accepting these GTE attributes, the bidder shall be deemed to have submitted the NIL Deviation Certificate 
along with the bid. This also serves as a confirmation that any deviation—explicit or implicit—within the bid 
proposal shall be considered withdrawn unconditionally, with no cost implications to NTPC . Non-compliance 
may lead to forfeiture of bid security. 
 
Please note: Bids that do not include acceptance of the GTE conditions will not be evaluated and shall 
be liable for rejection. 
 
Bidders are therefore requested to provide their confirmation under the GTE tab on the GePNIC portal. This 
confirmation will serve as your formal declaration of full compliance with the bid documents for the subject 
package. 
 
Acceptance of GTE provisions is a prerequisite and confirms the bidder's agreement to all terms and 
conditions of the bidding document. 
 
  5.0 IMPORTANT GUIDELINES REGARDING TENDER : 
8  
a) 'Class-I local suppliers’  only are eligible to participate in this tender , as defined in the bidding  
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. Minimum Local 
Content % for this package is 60%. 
 
b) Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as 
mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only 
if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority.  
 
       However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which 
the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
c) NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising 
out of such action. 
 
d) NTPC reserves right to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS published 
in the portal AT ANY TIME. NTPC also reserves the right to extend/change the bidding schedule through 
publishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situation demands so AT ANY TIME. The 
corrigendum as decided by NTPC and deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions 
therein. This prevails over the relevant provisions elsewhere in   the bid document. The 
corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be 
assumed that the information contained therein will have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. 
Bidders are advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendums, if 
any. 
 
e) The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded from 
the Gepnic Portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in). The Bidder would be required to register on the website. 
 
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
f) The bid document consists of the followings :  
 
     Section  
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  
III General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
IV Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
V Technical Specifications/Scope of Work, Drawings and Quality Plans 
VI Bill/Schedule of Quantities (BOQ/SOQ) 
VII  Forms and Procedures 
 
g) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section-V, shall supplement/ amend the General Conditions of 
Contract (GCC) Section-IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a conflict, the provisions in SCC 
shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
h) THIS IS A NO DEVIATION TENDER, WHICH MEANS- NO DEVIATION, WHATSOEVER, IS PERMITTED BY 
THE EMPLOYER TO ANY PROVISIONS OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS. 
 
i) Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be qualified. 
Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of Bidder’s 
representatives who choose to attend the bid opening. 
 
j) Address for communication:   SM (CPG-I/C&M)/AGM (CPG-I/C&M) 
NTPC Limited, Unified Shared Service Centre, Central Procurement Group-I, 
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, 
Pin Code-492101 
9  
Phone: 0771-2515308 / 0771-2515267 
E-mail: vkbhojwani@ntpc.co.in,  amitksingh@ntpc.co.in or at office. 
Websites: www.eprocurentpc.nic.in or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
k) Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, 
Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New 
Delhi – 10003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 