NTPC Limited 
Vendor Development Cell, CPG-1, Nava Raipur 
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) and Scope of Work (SOW) 
for Vendor Enlistment for CEG: OFF-09 (Category-1) 
 
A CEG Details 
  
  CEG No. OFF-09 (Category-1) 
  CEG 
DESCRIPTION 
Mechanical Maintenance of Offsite Systems 
  
AREA OF WORK 
CW pumps, Fire Detection & Protection 
System, Raw Water / Make up / Intake Water 
System, Service Water system, Cooling 
Towers, DM water system, miscellaneous 
pumping systems, piping & equipment etc., 
Under water Inspection, repair and sealing 
works of Cooling Tower outlet / CW fore bay 
Gate / Cleaning of OAC / CW pump sump / 
RW / MU water sump work. 
  
RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE CPG-1/ VDC 
B TECHNICAL CRITERIA OF QR: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.1 The applicant should have executed the work (as per B.1.1 / B.1.2) in 
500MW or above capacity power plant as under: 
 
B.1.1 Mechanical Maintenance works of one year or more, in preceding 05(five) 
years from the date of application, which includes any of the following: 
(i) CW Pumps 
(ii) Boiler and/or its auxiliaries 
(iii) Turbine and/or its auxiliaries 
OR 
B.1.2 Erection & commissioning works which includes any of the following: 
(i) CW Pumps 
(ii) Boiler and/or its auxiliaries 
(iii) Turbine and/or its auxiliaries 
 
NOTES: 
I. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the applicant should 
have achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is 
started earlier and / or is not completed/closed. 
II. Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-contractor may also 
be considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly 
certified by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-
contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
III. Applicant shall submit an undertaking in the attached format that the 
work of ‘Underwater inspection and/or repair works’ shall be executed 
by himself or by his sub-contractor who meets the requirement detailed 
under Sl no. 2.4 of SOW, Annexure-I. 
C 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at B) above: 
Relevant PO copy and client’s completion certificate/RA bill/Final deviation 
statement. 
D Other Documents to be uploaded:  
In addition to the documents required in support of Qualifying Requirements as 
stated at C) above, following documents are also required to be uploaded by 
the applicants applying for enlistment: - 
 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of Similar Works. Copy of 
completion certificate/ RA bill from the concerned client in support of 
successful execution of works against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In 
case the audited result for the preceding financial year is not available, 
certification of financial statements from a practicing-chartered 
accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to submit the 
certificate from practicing chartered accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of the three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial years shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO stating that the financial results are under audit as on date of 
application and certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters are not available. 
3. In case the applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements 
on standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the applicant can be considered acceptable provided the 
applicant further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of 
its qualification. 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
applicant along with copies of the Audited consolidated financial 
statements of its Holding Company. 
(b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual 
Report of the company. 
 
Note: 
(i) Maximum Three Credential Order(s) / Similar Work(s) shall be 
considered for calculation of the EC. 
(ii) All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the STC available 
at  VDC portal  https://vdc.ntpc.co.in 
 
NTPC may ask for more / shortfall documents, if any.  
E NOTE-1 Similar works means: Criterion mentioned at Sl. No. B above 
NOTE-2 a) Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e., including taxes etc.), the applicant has to give 
break up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, taxes 
etc. 
F 
QUALITY 
PLAN  
(If Applicable) 
NOT APPLICABLE 
G Category of 
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-1 (Up to 4 Crore) 
H SCOPE OF 
WORK 
1.0  SCOPE OF WORK 
 
Scope of the work covers Mechanical Maintenance of various 
Offsite systems like CW pumps, Fire Detection & Protection 
System, Raw Water/Make up/Intake Water System, Service 
Water system, Cooling Towers, DM water system, 
miscellaneous pumping systems, piping & equipment etc. 
Mechanical Maintenance of above systems include 
Maintenance (Preventive / Breakdown / Replacement / 
Overhauling) of pumps (both Horizontal & Vertical pumps), 
gear boxes, pipeline/ducts, valves, agitators, tanks, Travelling 
Water Screens, trash racks, Stoplogs, hoists/EOT etc.  
 
Under water Inspection, repair and sealing works of Cooling 
Tower outlet / CW fore bay Gate / Cleaning of OAC / CW pump 
sump / RW/MU water sump is also included in scope of work. 
 
2.0  Detailed Scope of Work:  
 
2.1 Area of work - Maintenance of CW pumps & it’s associated 
duct, valves TWS, EOT etc. 
1. Maintenance / Overhauling of CW Pumps, lub pumps and 
associated duct, valves & actuators, Travelling Water Screen, 
EOT, Trash Rack, Stop Log Gates etc.  
2. Other details of works shall be given in tender documents. 
 
2.2 Area of work - Raw Water/Make up Water Pumps, Fire 
Detection & Protection System, Service water system, 
drinking water system, DM water system, air lines, Misc. 
Pumps & Equipment etc. including repair / replacement of 
pipeline, valves, hoists etc. 
1. Maintenance/Overhauling of pumps and its accessories for 
Fire Detection & Protection System, Raw water / Make up 
water pumps, lub water pumps, Sump pumps etc.  
2. Cleaning / repair of Strainers, Travelling Water Screens, Trash 
rack, Stop Log Gates, Pit/ Sump, hoists etc.  
3. Repair / replacement of pipelines, Butterfly valves, gate 
valves, Air Release Valves, strainers, detectors, quartz bulbs, 
sprinklers, deluge valves etc. 
4. Other details of works shall be given in tender documents. 
 
2.3 Area of work - Cooling Towers:  Maintenance of Cooling 
Tower Equipment, Internals, Pipelines and associated works 
including miscellaneous works such as cleaning of Columns and 
Beams, Cold basin cleaning, Outlet gates etc. as per following: 
1. Check / replace internals of the gear box.  
2. Check and do alignment of gear box with motor.  
3. Inspect / Replace the gear box oil, if required.  
4. Check and correct fan blade angle to the design value.  
5. Inspect / Grease / service main and riser valves. 
6. Repair/cleaning of CT outlet gates and screen / bucket 
strainers.  
7. Repair of Monorail beam for lifting of CT outlet gates / 
screen.  
8. Cell doors to be repaired if required and sealed with rubber 
sheet / conveyor belt.  
9. Inspect / Replace cracked / damaged fan blades.  
10. Inspect / repair / replace of monorail beam required for 
lifting gear box.  
11. All the materials, scraps after the work to be removed and 
taken to a place as directed by EIC.  
12. Trial run would be taken after completing all the jobs and 
needful action would be done in case of vibration, high oil 
temp etc.  
13. Isolation of cells, arranging safe approach, Scaffolding 
platform inside cell, Providing top surface protection of Fills  
14. (a) Inspection / replacement of choked / fallen nozzles, Drift 
Eliminators, Fills (PVC V bars / PP grids / Film Packs) creating 
access to the spray chambers of the cell  
(b). Repair of damaged water distribution pipe couplings, 
end caps, pipe joints, riser pipes & valves with hot water 
duct / channel.  
15. (a) Cleaning the fill packs by water jet from top / bottom as 
instructed of EIC.  
(b) The choked film packs need to be removed, weighed, 
dried, tapped and replaced in position if found usable, 
otherwise new pack to be installed.  
16. Lifting and weighing of fill packs before and after cleaning, 
as applicable.  
17. Cleaning of cell RCC structures, columns, support channel.  
18. Repair / replace the defective SS channels / Supports as per 
the standard practice.  
19. Recharging of cells after refixing the fill packs and nozzles 
etc.  
20. Removal of damaged / scrap fills to scrap yard and made 
the area clean as per instruction of EIC.  
21. Area around CT (pavement area + staircase area) to be 
cleaned after recharging.  
22. Minor Civil works in Cooling towers like chipping, concrete 
breaking etc., if required. 
23. Other details of works shall be given in tender documents. 
 
2.4 Area of work - Under Water Services for Offsite Area 
1. Under water "Inspection and sealing of Cooling Tower outlet 
/ CW fore bay Gate / Cleaning of OAC / CW pump sump / CW 
fore bay / RW/MU water sump" work by engaging divers & 
safety equipment in thermal power plants.  
2. Skilled manpower who are conversant with such job should 
only be deputed.  
3. Other details of works shall be given in tender documents. 
 
Notes for Sl. no. 2.4:  
1. The work of ‘underwater inspection and/or repair’ shall be 
executed by agency himself or by his sub-contractor who 
meets the following requirement: 
 
The applicant / his Sub-contractor should have executed 
work of ‘underwater inspection and/or repair works’ 
 
2. The approval for execution of work by the agency himself or 
his Sub-contractor will be subjected to approval of EIC based 
on submission of relevant documents issued by Client 
(Relevant PO copy and client’s completion certificate/RA 
bill/Final deviation statement) to establish aforesaid 
criterion. All submitted documents shall be TPIA/ISA 
certified. 
I ENLISTMENT 
PROCESS 
1) Subject enlistment is for enlistment of vendors for the work 
of Mechanical Maintenance in Offsite systems comprising 
of 
a) CW pumps, Fire Detection & Protection System, Raw 
Water/Make up/Intake Water System, Service Water 
system, Cooling Towers, DM water system, 
miscellaneous pumping systems, piping & equipment 
etc. 
b) Under water Inspection, repair and sealing works of 
Cooling Tower outlet / CW fore bay Gate / Cleaning of 
OAC / CW pump sump / RW/MU water sump work. 
(Also Refer Annexure-I for scope of work) 
 
2) At the time of enlistment, applicant should submit 
undertaking in the attached format that the work of 
‘underwater inspection and/or repair’ shall be executed by 
himself or by his sub-contractor who meets the 
requirement mentioned under Sl no. 2.4 of SOW, 
Annexure-I. 
 
3) Applicants who meet QR criteria at Sl. No. ‘B’ and submit 
undertaking for underwater inspection and/or repair 
works in attached format shall only be enlisted. 
 
4) Enlisted vendors as per their execution capability (EC) will 
be issued tender enquiries for station specific packages. 
The scope of work of these tenders will generally comprise 
as detailed in Annexure-I (scope of work) under the station 
specific tender(s). (Refer Sl no. 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 of SOW, 
Annexure-I). 
 
 
5) After award of work of station specific package, the 
successful contractor will be required to submit the 
credentials in respect of criteria to be met by contractor or 
by his proposed sub-contractor as per provisions of Sl. No. 
2.4 of SOW (Refer Annexure-I) regarding underwater 
inspection and/or repair works, as mentioned below: 
Quote 
1. The work of ‘underwater inspection and/or repair’ shall 
be executed by agency himself or by his sub-contractor 
who meets the following requirement: 
 
The applicant / his Sub-contractor should have executed 
work of ‘underwater inspection and/or repair works’. 
 
2. The approval for execution of work by the agency 
himself or his Sub-contractor will be subjected to 
approval of EIC based on submission of relevant 
documents issued by Client (Relevant PO copy and 
client’s completion certificate/RA bill/Final deviation 
statement) to establish aforesaid criterion. All submitted 
documents shall be TPIA/ISA certified. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-I 
PROFORMA OF "UNDERTAKING FOR UNDERWATER INSPECTION AND/OR REPAIR WORKS " 
(TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT ALONG WITH ENLISTMENT APPLICATION) 
 
NAME OF ENLISTMENT APPLICATION………………………………………………………………………… 
 
NAME OF APPLICANT…………………………………………………………………………………………………. 
 
(a) We, the undersigned, submit our application for the works under the above-
named application, in full conformity with the scope of work of said application.   
 
(b) Regarding work of ‘underwater inspection and/or repair works’, we have read 
the criterion mentioned in Scope of work as detailed under: 
 
“1. The work of ‘underwater inspection and/or repair’ shall be executed by agency 
himself or by his sub-contractor who meets the following requirement: 
 
     The applicant / his Sub-contractor should have executed work of ‘underwater 
inspection   and/or repair works’ 
 
2. The approval for execution of work by the agency himself or his Sub-contractor 
will be subjected to approval of EIC based on submission of relevant documents 
issued by Client (Relevant PO copy and client’s completion certificate/RA 
bill/Final deviation statement) to establish aforesaid criterion. All submitted 
documents shall be TPIA/ISA certified.” 
 
(c) We hereby undertake that the work of ‘underwater inspection and/or repair 
works’’ shall be executed by us or our sub-contractor who meets the requirement 
mentioned under scope of work (Annexure-I). In this regard, required documents 
shall be timely submitted for approval of Engineer-In-Charge (EIC) before execution 
of work. 
 
Signature ... ... ... ... ... .... ... ... ... .... ...... . ...  
Date ................ 
Place................ 
Name... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...... ... ... ......... ... 
Designation ... ... ... ... ...... . ... .. ... ..... ....... 
 