NSPCL 
(A joint Venture of NTPC & SAIL) 
SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, Bhilai 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
Section-I  
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT)  
 
FOR 
 
"Ash transportation to NHAI road stretches through Rate Contract " 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Tender Ref: NSPCL-Bhilai/SSC/26039  
GEM Bid no. GEM/2026/B/7596230  
1.0 NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED (NSPCL)  invites online bids through GeM Portal 
on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-I : Techno-commercial Bid & 
Envelope-II: Price Bid) ” from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as p er the scope of 
work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK  
 
The scope of work comprises of “Ash transportation to NHAI road stretches through 
Rate Contract ". 
NSPCL intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & C onditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sale at GeM Portal (https//gem.gov.in/) 
and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category Services -Works Contract  
Source of IFB/NIT NSPCL -SSC -Bhilai  
Mode of Tendering Custom Bid Service on GeM Portal  
NIT Date  
As per details at GeM Portal 
Document sale Commencement Date 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated se parately. 
Bid Security / EMD Rs. 20 ,00,000 /- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs 
only)  
To be submitted in the form of EMD-
BG/Insurance Surety bond/Online 
payment. 
Further, Bidders are exempted from 
furnishing Bid Security/EMD as per GeM 
GTC. Bidders may ascertain their eligibility 
for availing Bid Security / EMD exemption as 
per GeM GTC before submission of Bids. 
Bidders shall have to upload scanned copy 
of relevant valid document in place of Bid 
Security document for Bid Security / EMD 
exemption and physical BG/ Surety Bond 
should reach before the Bid opening date 
and time at the address provided at Sl No. 
12.0 below.  
Benefit to MSME Applicable.  
The bidders may apprise themselves of the 
relevant provisions of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of their bids 
and apply in GEM Portal accordingly 
without applying in GEM appropriately, 
MSE benefit cannot be availed.  
Contract Period 12  Months  
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable  
Reverse Auction Not Applicable  
Integrity Pact Applicable  
Type of Bidding  Percentage quote over Base value. Refer 
Sec-VI Scope of Work for detail procedure 
to Quote the Price Bid on GeM Portal.  
Splitting  Applicable. 
 Rate Contract will be finalized among 03 
(Three) Bidders. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be ente rtained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Confer ence (if applicable) as specified on 
online portal”. 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on GeM  Portal only. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders  shall submit “Techno-Commercial 
Proposal” and “Price Proposal” online (https://gem. gov.in), within the bid submission date 
and time as mentioned on Gem Portal. Only Techno-Co mmercial proposals will be opened 
on the date and time mentioned on Gem Portal. 
 
Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://gem.gov.in. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security, P ower of Attorney and Declaration on 
Integrity Pact.  
Integrity Pact shall be submitted as per instruction mentioned in ITB/ BDS/ATC. Bid Security 
shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the stipulated bid 
submission closing date and time at the address men tioned at Sl no. 12.0 below. Further 
Agency must submit Attachment-19 (Declaration regar ding GST) being provided under the 
bid documents. For details, please refer to ITB/ BDS Clause. Bid security must be submitted 
in the form of EMD-BG/Insurance Surety Bond /Online  payment only. However, a Bank 
Guarantee/ Insurance Surety Bond shall be made in t he format available in Tender 
Documents furnished by NSPCL. 
 
EMD-BG/Insurance Surety Bond in GEM Format shall no t be accepted and shall be 
rejected. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURI TY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER A S BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC 
FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF P ROOF OF E-PAYMENT 
OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-
TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
Any bid without an acceptable Bid Security and Inte grity Pact (applicable) shall be 
rejected by Employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened. 
 
4.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS.  
 
The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they fulfil 
the following Qualifying Requirements. 
 
1.1.0  Technical Criteria  
1.1.1  The bidder should have executed the following work( s) with “minimum executed 
value of Rs. 16.36 Cr. (Rupees Sixteen Crores and Thirty-Six Lakhs Only) 
within the preceding seven (07) years reckoned from the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening , through any of the following routes: 
ROUTE 1: 
Construction of ‘Ash Dyke’/ ‘Embankment’/ ‘Earthen Dam’/ ‘Road’ / ‘Site Levelling’ 
  OR 
  ROUTE 2: 
The Work of Transportation through Road (including loading/unloading) of ‘Ash’ / 
‘Any Earthen Material’/‘Any Mineral’/ ‘Coal’/’Slag’ 
  OR 
ROUTE 2: 
The Work of “Earthwork including loading/unloading and transportation by road ” in 
any Civil Works (other than those listed above in Route 1). 
1.1.2  Note for Route 1: 
Strengthening and widening of roads will also be considered under “construction of 
road”. However, works involving only repair and maintenance of road(s) will not be 
considered as “construction of road” 
Note for Route 3: 
Under Route-3 above, a Bidder can submit bid citing details of Civil Works as 
their experience /Reference Works which are not covered under Route-1. 
 
In such Civil Works (under Route-3), the executed v alue of only those BOQ Items 
shall be considered for the purpose of calculating “Executed Value” which are 
pertaining to “Earthwork including loading/unloadin g and transportation”. 
Earthwork in respect of all kinds of soil, soft roc k, hard rock shall be considered 
for the purpose of evaluation. 
 
Notes for Route 1 /Route 2 / Route 3: 
1) In case of contract(s) under execution as on date of Techno-commercial 
bid opening , the value of work executed till such date will be considered. 
2) For the PO/WO which were awarded prior to preced ing 7 years from the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening , the value of work executed in the 
preceding 7 years from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening will be 
considered. 
3) Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-c ontractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly 
certified by owner specifying the scope of work exe cuted by the sub-
contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
4) The executed value is defined here under: 
 
a) For Route1 
The executed value shall mean the total value of wo rk executed under a 
single Purchase Order/Work Order/Agreement under Route1. 
 
b) For Route 2 
The executed value shall mean the total value of wo rk executed under a single 
Purchase Order/Work Order/Agreement under Route2. 
However, if the work of “Transportation through Roa d (including 
loading/unloading)” is part of some different natur e of Work/ Purchase 
Order/Work Order/Agreement, then the total value of  work executed in respect 
of similar Items will only be considered. 
 
c) For Route3 
The executed value shall mean the total value of wo rk executed in respect of 
BOQ items/works as stipulated under Route3 in a sin gle Purchase Order/Work 
Order/Agreement. 
 
Values as per Clause 1.1.1 shall be considered exclusive of taxes & duties.  
1.2.0  Financial Criteria  
1.2.1  The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder, s hould not be less than Rs. 
20.45 Cr. (Rupees Twenty Crores and Forty-Five Lakhs only) du ring the preceding 
three (03) completed financial years as on the date  of Techno-Commercial bid 
opening. 
2.2.2  Net worth should not be less than 100% of the Bidde r’s paid up share capital as on 
the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder meets the requirement 
of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiar y(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies wherev er applicable, the Net worth of 
the Bidders and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company, and/or Subsidiary(ies) 
of the Holding Company, in combined manner should n ot be less than100% of their 
total paid up share capital. However, individually,  their Net worth should not be less 
than 75% of respective paid up share capitals. For Consortiums/Joint Ventures, 
wherever applicable, the Net worth of all consortiu m/Joint Venture members in 
combined manner should not be less than 100% of the ir paid-up share capital. 
However individually their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their respective 
paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net worth (combined)=(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100  
Where X1, X2 X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 ar e individual paid up share 
capitals. 
2.2.3  In case, a bidder does not satisfy the financial cr iteria, stipulated at clause  
2 .2.1 above on its own, its holding company would b e required to meet the  
stipulated turnover requirements at clause 2 .2.1 ab ove, provided that the net  
worth of such holding company as on the last day of  preceding financial year is  
at least equal to or more than the paid-up share ca pital of the holding  
company. In such an event, the bidder would be requ ired to furnish along with  
its bid, a Letter of Undertaking from its holding c ompany, supported by Board  
Resolution, as per the format enclosed  in  the  bid  documents,  pledging  
unconditional  and  irrevocable  financial support for the execution of the contract  
by the bidder in case of award.  
2.2.4  In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audit ed financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the un-audited unconsolida ted financial statements of 
the bidder can be considered acceptable provided th e bidder furnishes the 
following further documents on substantiation of it s qualification  
1. Copies of the un-audited unconsolidated financial s tatements of the 
Bidder along with copies of the audited consolidate d financial statements of its 
Holding Company.  
2. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Compa ny, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the  un-audited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual report of the company.  
2.2.5  In case where audited results for the last financia l year as on the date of techno 
commercial bid opening are not available, the finan cial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered  acceptable. In case, Bidder is 
not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results for the t hree consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be consider ed for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be require d from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating th at the Financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno co mmercial bid opening and 
the Certificate  from  the  practicing  Chartered  Accountant  certifying  the  financial 
parameters is not available.  
Note  (i)  Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share  capital and free reserves. 
Free reserves mean all reserves credited out of the  profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneou s expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii)  Other income  shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
(iii)  The figures indicated in 2.2.1 are exclusive of Ta xes and Duties. If required, 
certificate in support of taxes and duties to be pr ovided from Chartered 
Accountant. 
(iv)  “Holding Company " and “ Subsidiary ” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
 
5.0 Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audit ed Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Membe r of Institute of Chartered Accountant 
of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of  compliance to Qualifying Requirements 
(QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Num ber (UDIN) generated in line with the 
Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
6.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer  reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ hi s collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / 
group companies to perform the contract, should the  circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verification s by Employer shall include but not be 
limited to the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference 
works in lieu of credentials. A negative determinat ion of such assessment of 
credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid.  
 
7.0 The reference works whose details have been declare d in their bid shall only be considered 
to ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specifi ed qualifying Requirement (QR). The 
Employer at its discretion may seek any clarificati on and/or documentary evidence only for 
the reference works as mentioned above. However, no  change or substitution of the 
reference works by new/additional plant for conform ing to the specified qualifying 
Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”. 
“Bidders are required to furnish the details of the  past experience like authentic Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Ag reements, client certificates, 
completion certificate, etc. in support of meeting the Qualifying Requirements based on 
which selection is to be made as per format. Howeve r, if any of the Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Ag reements pertains to the work 
executed by Bidder for NSPCL in the past, then in r espect of such Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Ag reements, Bidder shall not be 
required to enclose Client Certificate along with its Bid.” 
 
 i) All the bidders are required to submit the deta ils of the past experiences, shall submit 
all the documents, in support of Technical Qualific ation Requirements (such as copy of 
Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly 
certified and verified for authenticity from Indepe ndent Statutory Auditor of their 
Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from boo ks of accounts, records and other 
relevant documents, Bidders can also submit a certi ficate issued by their Independent 
Statutory Auditor certifying the data required for meeting the Technical Qualification 
Requirements.  
 
ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly ce rtified and verified documents from 
their Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA in suppo rt of meeting Technical QR along with 
a certificate regarding verification of authenticit y of documents as per the format placed 
at Annexure-II (Appendix-1 to Attachment-3 - Undert aking from Statutory Auditor) and/ 
or Annexure-III (Appendix-2 to Attachment-3 - Under taking from TPIA). All the 
documents submitted by the bidder in support of mee ting Technical QR shall be digitally 
signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
 
iii) In case documents are certified & verified for  authenticity through TPIA, the 
verification and certification of authenticity of d ocuments is acceptable from any of the 
following TPIAs:  
 
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18) TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is 
not certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Audito r of the bidder, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, shall not be c onsidered verified/ certified for the 
purpose of evaluation, and the bid shall be liable for rejection. 
 
iv) The Bidder shall be responsible to get their do cuments/ credentials in support of 
Qualifying Requirements verified & certified by the ir Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or 
specified TPIAs. All the costs pertaining to third party verification and certification 
(including those by statutory auditors) shall be borne by the Bidder. Employer shall have 
no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall not be liable for any claim/ 
dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor. 
 
8.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make i n India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding do cuments in this regard before 
submission of their bids.  
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land bord er with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which  the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for 
Bids/NIT without assigning any reason whatsoever an d in such case no bidder / intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
11.0 The bidding document is available online. A complet e set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the GeM  Portal (https://gem.gov.in). The Bidder 
would be required to register on the website.  
First time users are required to register themselves on GeM Portal only. First time users not 
allotted any vendor code by NSPCL, should send a co py of the registration details to the e-
mail address specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following details at 
least three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card,  
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by b ank  
Note:  No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
12.0 Address for communication: 
 
AGM/Sr. Manager (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED (NSPCL),  
Shared Service Centre, Bhilai  
Expansion Site, Near Purena Village, Bhilai (East), PO-Dist:Durg (C.G.) 
Pin Code-490021 
Tel. No.: 0788-2282435 
Email: ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in/  pratibhasoni@nspcl.co.in / 
 
Websites: https://gem.gov.in  or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  or www.nspcl.co.in  
 
13.0 Registered Office: 
NSPCL, 4 TH  Floor, NBCC Tower,  
15, Bhikaji Cama Place,  
New Delhi 
 