 
 
  
 SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
1 OF 3 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID  
NTPC Limited  
(A GOVT. OF INDIA ENTERPRISE)  
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA  
  
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)  
 FOR 
Repair and Maintenance of Road Works along with approaches at NTPC 
NETRA Campus, Greater Noida 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding)  
  GEPNIC Tender Ref. No.:  2026_NTPC_108714_1                    Date:01.06.2026  
 
1.0 NTPC invites online bids at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) 
at website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding 
basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from 
eligible bidders for or aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly 
mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 Repair and maintenance of internal roads which involves earth work, subgrade 
preparation, PCC work, Bituminous and RCC work, and other miscellaneous works 
as per detailed BOQ and items as described in DSR 2023. 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the subject package through Domestic / Own Resources. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the 
bidding documents, which are available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ . The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under: 
 
Issuance of IFB 01.06.2026 
Documents Download Dates & Timings From 01.06.2026 
Pre Bid Conference date & time  Not Applicable 
Last Date for receipt of Queries from 
prospective Bidders (if any)** 
08.06.2026, 15:00 Hrs 
Bid Submission Start Date and Time 
(both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
17.06.2026, 15:00 Hrs 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
22.06.2026, 15:00 Hrs 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-
Commercial Bid  
23.06.2026, 15:30 Hrs 
Date & Time of Opening of Price Bid                                   Shall be intimated separately after 
opening of Techno-Commercial 
proposal      
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for 
updated bidding schedule of the Tender. 
 
 
  
 SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
2 OF 3 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID  
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if 
applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC”. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 2,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Two lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.  
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed 
envelope shall be rejected by the employer as being non-responsive. In case, 
the bid security is submitted as e-BG/EFT, bidder to submit the copy of e-
BG/proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed envelope or 
in the e-tendering portal. 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested 
Bidder from the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited 
under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class- 
3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have 
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. 
Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from agencies authorized by 
Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process including Bidder 
Manual for online fee payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY 
at the e- tendering portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders:  
The Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at 
Annexure-I to IFB.  
8.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess 
the capabilities and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ 
subsidiaries/ group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances 
warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
9.0 Employer reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the 
Invitation for Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
10.0  
'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders 
may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
 
 
  
 SECTION-I (IFB) PAGE 
3 OF 3 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID  
11.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged 
in development projects. 
12.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified. 
13.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is 
not permissible. 
14.0 With reference to Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises 
(MSEs) Order, 2012, MSE benefit not applicable. 
15.0 Address for Communication:  
Sr Manager(CS)/ AGM(CS)   
NTPC LTD. 
Sixth Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
Plot A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,   
Distt.-Gautam Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh,   
PIN-201307, India  
 
Tele. No. +91-120-494-6550/ 6536 
Mob: 9771440920/ 8544414017 
e-mail: ravikumar04@ntpc.co.in  / rupeshkumar@ntpc.co.in  
 
Websites: www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in or   
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
  
16.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited,  
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, 
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
Qualifying Requirements for  
Repair and Maintenance of Road Works along with approaches at NTPC NETRA 
Campus, Greater Noida 
1.0 Technical Criteria:  
   
The bidder should have executed Civil works including Road construction/ repair/maintenance 
works of Bitumen and/or RCC Roads within the preceding seven (07) years as on the date of 
originally Scheduled Techno- Commercial Bid Opening with either of following:  
   
a)     Single order of value not less than Rs.137 Lakhs,  
                                      or  
b)     Two orders of value not less than Rs. 86 Lakhs each,  
                                or  
c)     Three orders of value not less than Rs. 68 Lakhs each. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0 
I. The word “executed” means the bidder should have achieved the criteria including the 
value as mentioned in the above QR within the preceding seven (7) years as on date of 
originally scheduled Techno-commercial bid opening even if the contract has been started 
earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
II. The reference works executed by the bidder’s group company / subsidiary company 
shall not be considered for meeting the qualifying requirements by the bidder. 
III. Reference work executed by a bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by a main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority 
specifying the Scope and value of Work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
IV. The executed value indicated above is excluding GST. In case contract is inclusive of 
GST, bidder should provide the break-up of basic value and GST. 
 
2.0       Financial Criteria:  
   
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of originally scheduled Techno-commercial bid opening should not be less than Rs 
172.00 Lakhs. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of originally scheduled 
Techno Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, bidder is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last  financial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be 
required from the CEO / CFO as per  the format enclosed in the bidding documents  stating 
that  the Financial results  of the Company are under audit as on the date of originally 
scheduled Techno - commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
 
Notes for clause 2.0 above: 
i)     While computing the annual turnover other Income shall not be considered. 
 