Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 1 of 11 
 
 
  
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Govt. of India enterprise) 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
For issue of Pond Ash on free of cost basis from NTPC Khargone to Eligible Projects like 
Road Project / Dams / Mine Backfilling and OB Mixing / Shoreline Protection etc. (as per 
extant MoEF&CC Notification and policy) – June’26 to May’27  
 
EOI No. NTPC/Khargone/AU/Pond Ash/2026/P-3                                                  Date:03/06/2026 
 
NTPC Khargone (2x660MW) invites Expression of Interest (EoI) in the prescribed format for receiving Pond Ash 
through Environment Friendly manner from station Ash Dyke  for the a gencies engaged in construction 
activities such as road laying, road and flyover embankments, shoreline protection structures in coastal 
districts and dams, Mine Owners for Mine backfilling and OB Mixing, within 300 kms radius from NTPC 
Khargone. Station shall supply the ash ‘on free of cost’ and ‘as is where is’ basis and shall bear the 
Transportation cost.  
Quantity: Expected Pond Ash quantity- 8.17 LMT, Duration: One year, Location: Ash Dyke of NTPC Limited 
Khargone. 
How to apply: Interested Ash users are requested to submit their EOI in the ‘Format’ available at website duly 
filled in the standard format (Annexure -9) to the address mentioned below on or Before 17:00 hrs. of 
12/06/2026. 
Application for EOI may be sent to Ash Management Department, NTPC Khargone, Village: Selda, Dist.-
Khargone, MP-451113, Email: aukhargone@ntpc.co.in, Contact Nos: 9650993988/8351803415 
The standard format and general information for EOI are available at website www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in. 
 
Registered Office: NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi -110003. 
www.ntpc.co.in, CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966 
 
Leading the Power Sector 

Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 2 of 11 
 
 
NOTICE 
for 
Issue of Pond ash on Free of Cost basis to Road Projects / Flyover 
embankments / Dams / Mines / Shoreline Protection structures in coastal 
Districts (as per extant MoEF&CC Notif ication and policy), from NTPC 
KHARGONE 
Ref No. NOTICE No. NTPC/Khargone/AU/Pond Ash/2026/P-3 Date: 03.06.2026 
 
 
This Notice consists of following Parts: - 
i. Part 1: General Information. 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response(s) to Notice. 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Ash User(s). 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B. 
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the Ash User, on each page  and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere to deem the request as acceptable. 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 3 of 11 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NTPC Khargone: 
Both units of NTPC, Khargone have been put into operation after declaration of COD on 01.02.2020 & 
04.04.2020, according to the installed capacity of NTPC, Khargone, Stage -I achieved 1320 MW with       effect 
from 04.04.2020. Accordingly, around 4500-5000 MT of Ash is being generated on daily basis. The  residual 
Ash after Utilization is being sent to Ash Dyke for Storage. Expected Pond Ash quantity for EOI is 8.17 LMT 
for next one year from June’2026 to May’2027. 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF&CC Gazette 
Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, NTPC KHARGONE intends to issue its 
Dry Ash on free of cost to Road Projects / Flyover embankments / Dams / Mines / Shor eline Protection 
structures in coastal Districts (as per extant MoEF&CC Notification and policy). Transportation cost (to the 
extent requested by the interested Ash User – with the provision that agency requesting the least support 
shall be given higher preference) shall be borne by NTPC KHARGONE within limits and as per criteria set by 
extant Government Notification, Advisory and Policy. Preference shall be given to requests having minimum 
cost implication to NTPC for ash transportation. 
To facilitate this, NTPC Khargone invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 01 (One) year, from 
its 2 X 660 MW units. Further details regarding this Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follows: - 
 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Khargone invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Users, for utilization of  pond 
ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification, in the prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3). 
Total quantity of fly ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details given  
hereunder. 
Power Stations / Location Total Quantity Offered for EoI Period of Supply 
NTPC Ltd, Khargone 
Village: Selda, P.O.: Khedi (Bujurg), 
Dist.: Khargone - 451113 (MP). 
 
8.17 LMT 
                01 year 
(June’2026 to May’2027) 
 
How to apply 
Interested Users desirous of receiving pond ash from NTPC Khargone as per the terms and conditions of this 
EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents and duly filled in  enclosed “Part 
2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “ Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by User” to the E – 
Mail address aukhargone@ntpc.co.in on or before 17:00 hrs. of 12.06.2026. 
Contact Nos: 9650993988/8351803415. 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “Part 3: 
Undertaking and Declaration by User”: 
1. GST registration may be applicable. 
2. Company registration as may be applicable. 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary proof as 
applicable. 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 4 of 11 
 
 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and authentic. Interest / 
Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
   Please note: Documents to be submitted by the Ash User(s) during the period of Ash supply: 
1. Daily Progress Report as per the specified format by Engineer-in-Charge (EIC) at NTPC KHARGONE. 
2. Quantity Received Certificate on Periodic basis as agreed with Engineer-in-Charge (EIC) 
3. Affidavit for Actual Ash Utilization as per extant MoEF&CC Gazette Notification on Half Yearly 
basis in format prescribed by Engineer-in-Charge (EIC). 
4. Any other document as required by the Engineer-in-Charge (EIC). 
5. User must install AsTram application provided by NTPC and implement it at unloading end for the 
vehicles deployed for Ash transportation and may follow instructions prescribed by Engineer-in-
Charge (EIC). 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and authentic. Response / 
Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
 
 
Allocation of pond ash Quantity: - 
Based on the recei pt of responses to this Notice, Pond ash shall be allocated to various Ash Users for 
qualified projects, keeping in view minimum cost implication to NTPC for transportation of Ash, till the 
available/ offered quantity is exhausted. 
In case the same Ash User gets some allocation against the last Auction Process and / or EoI for free issue 
with transportation by Ash User and also against this Notice, then the Ash quantity allocated against this 
Notice shall be issued to that Ash User, only after the Ash Us er completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation 
against the Auction Process and / or EoI for free issue with transportation by Ash User as applicable. 
 
Daily allocation of Pond ash shall be finalized by EIC depending upon site specific conditions and availability 
of Ash at the Station on that particular day. The ash shall be delivered to designated site  / location as 
indicated in the requisition through transporters appointed by NTPC for the purpose. Ash User shall ensure 
timely unloading of the ash at destination and release of vehicles in reasonable time. 
 
Daily allocation of pond ash shall be done as given below: 
 
1. All successful users shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day-wise requested 
quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month. 
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability. NTPC shall determine  and 
intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous month. 
3. All allocated users (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above schedule and 
mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non -mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate such  
quantity to alternate user(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer-in-Charge (EIC)-NTPC shall be final and 
binding in this regard. 
 
Pond ash shall be issued from the Ash Dyke as decided by EIC of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘ as is where 
is ‘basis. 
 
 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 5 of 11 
 
 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Ash User) 
(To be submitted by the Ash User along with specified documents) 
 
Notice for Issue of Pond ash from NTPC KHARGONE SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION 
 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Ash User  
 
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm) 
 
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Nature of Business:  
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year 
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling Pond ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 6 of 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
 
5 
 
 
Pond ash quantity sought against Notice (both in 
Figures and Words): 
 
Figures: 
 
Words: 
6 Period of requirement Start Date: 
End Date: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No). 
 
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
 
 
8 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond ash EoI for 
free issue with transportation by Ash User from 
same station (Yes/No). 
 
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
Address of the location where Ash User 
proposes to receive fly ash if issued. 
 
 
Chainage wise monthly quantity 
requirement in case of road projects 
 
*.kml file of the project to be submitted for 
road/highway projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the Ash User 
proposes to utilize the Pond ash, if issued. 
 
SN 
 
Avenue Name 
 
Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total 
 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 7 of 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
Whether transportation cost will be shared? 
(Yes / No) 
 
 
If yes, then specify percentage to be shared by 
interested Ash User 
 
 
12 
This TPP is the closest to the Project being 
executed. (Yes / No) 
 
If No, name of the Thermal Power Plant (TPP) 
closest to the project: 
 
 
13 
 
Reason for not sourcing Ash from closest 
project. 
 
 
 
 
14 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
15 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of   
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
Signature: 
(Authorized Representative) 
Name: 
Designation: 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 8 of 11 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Ash User. 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
UNDERTAKING 
 
I / We  (Name of the firm / individual) hereby 
certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the Notice requirements and accept 
all terms and conditions of the Notice including those contained in all corrigendum/addendum 
issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the terms and conditions of the Notice 
including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of allocation of ash to me / us, the 
complete Notice document shall be considered as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for 
constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / Semi – 
Government / Quasi - Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have been 
convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding safety, 
environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable statutory 
requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the contract. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries from 
any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable 
norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and  for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us or m y / our representatives / 
agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization Avenues as 
identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly  basis, an 
affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes / Avenues as identified in extant 
MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and the deputed transportation agency / agencies in 
facilitating timely unloading of Pond ash as per submitted schedule and in timely submission of 
details of measurement. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us against this Notice are true and 
authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any stage, 
the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for disqualification 
from this Notice and also liable for any other penal action that may arise due to the above. 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 9 of 11 
 
 
DECLARATION 
 
I / We declare that  (Name of TPP) is closest to the project being executed for 
which supply of Ash is being sought. 
OR 
I / We declare that   TPP is closest to the project, however, supply of Ash has 
been denied from  TPP. 
 
Further, I / We understand that: 
1. This Notice by NTPC is not a commitment for Pond ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the 
response against this Notice. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, 
regardless of the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Allocation of Ash to different Eligible Projects shall be done by TPP in compliance with extant 
MoEF&CC Notification and in a manner, which will have minimum financial implication on TPP, 
till the offered quantity gets exhausted. 
4. (Applicable for parties allocated Pond ash through last auction / EoI process also from 
same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis through 
under this Notice, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity allocated 
through last Auction process and / or EoI, then only quantity allocated against this Notice will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Name ……………………………… 
……………………………………… 
Place: ……………………. Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
Name of the Company: …….……. 
…………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
…………………………………….…. 
Company Seal: …..………………… 
………….…………………………….. 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 10 of 11 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
 
1. Pond Ash shall be issued from the Ash Dyke to the Ash Users (or their authorized 
representatives, as may be approved in writing by the Engineer -in-Charge (EIC)) 
based on the availability of excavated ash at the Dyke and subject to operational, 
safety, and other site-related considerations as determined by the EIC. 
 
2. The Ash User acknowledges and agrees that NTPC shall not be held liable for 
any delay, shortfall, or non -supply of ash arising from such constraints. The Ash 
User further undertakes that any delay in project execution, increase in project 
costs, or any other consequential loss arising out of delayed or non -delivery of 
ash by NTPC shall be solely at the Ash User's risk and cost, and no claim 
whatsoever shall lie against NTPC on this account. 
 
3. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Ash Users and 
verifiable by TPP. 
 
4. On allocation of Pond ash against this Notice, Successful Ash Users shall submit 
affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value, certifying the complete 
Utilization of issued Pond ash, in adherence with the provisions of the extant 
Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed 
format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
 
5. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non-compliance of 
any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, Guidelines and Statutory 
provisions by the Ash User or its representative / agent, during the course of 
execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the 
Ash User shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity 
bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
6. Interested and eligible Ash Users undertaking the Project shall submit a tentative 
project implement ation schedule along with their Expression of Interest (EOI). 
The schedule shall include, inter alia, the project execution timeline, key 
milestones, and the planned chainage -wise monthly ash requirement for the 
entire project period. The submitted schedul e shall form the basis for planning 
and monitoring of ash allocation and utilization and shall be subject to review by 
NTPC. 
7. All Eligible Projects shall source Ash from Thermal Power Plants (TPPs) closest to 
their Project. Allocation of Ash by TPP shall be in compliance with the same. 
8. It shall also be the responsibility of the Ash User(s) to ensure that the Ash sent 
from the TPP is facilitated for quick unloading and release of vehicle. 
 
9. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in c ase 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 
Annexure- 9 EOI  
 
Page 11 of 11 
 
 
 
10. The User shall mandatorily install and implement the AsTram application 
provided by NTPC at the unloading end for all vehicles engaged in ash 
transportation. The User shall comply wi th all procedures, operational 
requirements, and instructions issued by the Engineer -in-Charge (EIC) from time 
to time. Any failure to implement or operate the AsTram system as prescribed 
may result in suspension of ash issuance and/or other actions as dee med 
appropriate by NTPC. 