NTPC LTD 
CC-OS
EOC NOIDA
Sub: Qualifying requirements & other details  for Vendor Enlistment for supply of Ferric Alum 
Grade-4 
Details of MEG (MATERIAL ENLISTMENT GROUP) 
1.0 MEG No. 10 MEG-32 
2.0 MEG Description Ferric Alum Grade-4 
A) 
3.0 Responsibility centre CC-CPC
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The applicant should be valid BIS License holder for manufacturing of Ferric Alum IS:299 Grade-4.
2. The applicant should have  in house testing facilities  or should be able to do the tests from
NABL/Govt. Laboratories for testing of all parameters as mentioned in the Indian standard.
3. The applicant should have supplied Ferric Alum Grade-4 as per IS 299 during last five years from
the date of application.
C) Document to be submitted by the applicants against qualifying requirements: 
1. QR-1: Copy of valid BIS License for IS: 299 Grade-4.
2. QR-2: Self declaration in the form of the list of testing facilities available in house with the mselves
& the list of the tests they carry out outside in NABL / Govt. labs.
3. QR-3: Any purchase order executed by the applicant for supply of Ferric Alum Grade-4 as per IS
299 and the execution proof for same order.
D) Other documents to be submitted:  
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical requirements as stated above, 
following documents are required to be submitted by the applicant for enlistment:  
1. Three POs of highest executed values of similar work during last five years fro m the date of
application (PO date should not be more than 5 years old as on the date of the application) along
with copy of invoice / completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful
execution of supply against POs.
2. Audited balan ce sheet including profit and loss statement for the previous three completed
financial years reckoned from the date of application.
In case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification of financial
statements from a practicing chartered account may be submitted. In case, Applicant is not able to
submit the certificate from practicing chartered Account certifying its financial parameters, the
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last fin ancial year shall be
considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further a Certificate would be required from
the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the application format documents stating that the
financial results of the company are under aud it as on the date of Application and the Certificate
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.
3. A sheet consisting of the following details: i) Production capacity ii) Maximum quantity that can be
offered in one month iii) Maximum quantity that can be arranged during monsoon only (June, July,
August, September). The information should be duly signed and stamped.
4. Any other document in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit.
E) Note-1 Similar works means: Supply of Ferric Alum as per IS 299. 
Note-2 The executed value means basic value of quantity of similar works executed / supplied 
against the reference  PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on the date of 
application). Where PO value is composite (i.e., including taxes etc.) the applicant to give 
item-wise break up of composite PO mentioning basic value, taxes etc.   
 
NTPC LTD 
                                                                           CC-OS  
   EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply Ferric Alum Grade-4 in Solid form 
 
A) MEG DETAILS  
 1.0 MEG NO. 10 MEG-32 
 2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Ferric Alum Grade-4 
 3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC-CPC 
B) Technical Specification  
1. General: The material  shall be in the form of slabs. The material is to be procured directly 
from manufacturers.  
2. Requirement 
Sr. Characteristics  Unit Requirements  
1 Insoluble matter, Max % by mass 0.4 
2 Soluble iron (as Fe +2 and Fe +3), 
Max 
% by mass 0.7 
3 Water soluble Aluminium 
compound (as Al2O3), Min 
% by mass 16 
4 pH (of 5% aqueous solution), Min  2.7 
5 Free acidity (As H 2SO4), Basicity  
(as Al2O3), Max 
% by mass 0.5 
6 Lead (as Pb), Max ppm 20 
7 Arsenic (as As2O3), Max ppm 4 
8 Mercury (as Hg), Max ppm 0.4 
9 Manganese (as Mn), Max ppm 20 
10 Chromium (as Cr), Max ppm 20 
11 Cadmium (as Cd), Max ppm 4 
12 Selenium (as Se), Max ppm 4 
13 Phenolic Compounds                 
(as C6H5OH), Max 
ppm 0.4 
14 Anionic Detergents (as MBAS) ppm 80 
 
3. Quality Plan: Inspection and testing of first four parameters as above i.e. Insoluble matter, 
pH, Soluble Iron and water soluble aluminium compounds shall be carried out at NTPC site 
laboratory. For balance ten parameters Manufacturer's laboratory / Govt. ap proved 
laboratory / NABL accredited laboratory test certificate shall be required along with each lot/ 
consignments. 
 
4. End Use: Water treatment plant   
 
 