                              NTPC Renewable Energy Limited  
                                     (A Subsidiary of NTPC Green Energy Limited)    
Corporate Centre 
SALIENT TECHNICAL FEATURES 
“Salient Technical Features of the systems /equipment/ services are mentioned below. These Salient 
Technical Features are mentioned only to facilitate the prospective bidders to prima-facie understand 
the requirements under the tender and shall not in any way limit or alter the scope of work and 
technical features/specification of equipment/ systems/ services covered in the Bidding Documents. 
Detailed provis ions in regard of scope of work and technical features/specification of equipment/ 
systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Document shall be final and binding.” 
Salient technical features of the proposed project are as follows: 
Name of the Project 
 
Development of EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
550MW (1x550MW) GRID CONNECTED SOLAR PV PROJECTS 
NEAR SHIMBHOO KA BURJ, RAJASTHAN 
Project capacity 550 MW (1 x 550MW) 
Block/Plot capacity 
 
1 Block of 550MW 
 
1. One Solar Block of 550MW. Bidders shall bid for entire 550MW capacity. 
2. Complete Design, engineering, manufacturing, supply, packing and forwarding, transportation, 
unloading storage, installation, testing and commissioning of Solar Photo Voltaic Plant 
including supply of Solar PV Modules. 
3. MMS as per Technical Specification – Tracker based 
4. String / Central Inverter with Maximum Power Point Tracking technology along with associated 
cables, cabling, Transformer & Switchgears. 
5. SCADA, Weather Monitoring System, and CCTV system. 
6. Electrical works and associated switchgear equipment as per technical specification. 
7. Evacuation of power up to Owner’s 33kV Switchgear of Pooling Substation 
8. Module cleaning system including supply and installation of all accessories. 
9. All associated civil works for Solar plant and power evacuation up to Owner’s 33kV Switchgear 
of Pooling Substation 
10. Dynamic reactive power compensation at PoI as per CEA technical standards and working 
committee report. 
11. Facilitation for Grid compliance study of Solar projects 
12. Comprehensive O&M for 3 years from date of commissioning of full capacity 
13. Supply of mandatory spares 