   
NTPC LTD 
USSC, VDC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
 
 
A CEG Details 
CEG No. MGR-99 
CEG DESCRIPTION “Maintenance of MGR Rail Track (category-II)” 
RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE VEC(USSC-Raipur) 
B TECHNICAL 
Qualifying 
Requirement 
 
TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
The applicant should have executed the works of: 
B.1: ‘“Track maintenance for a continuous period of atleast one year as per 
Indian Railway Permanent Way Manual (IRPWM)” , within the preceding five 
(5) years from the last date of submission of application. 
OR 
B.2: “‘Track Linking’ / ‘laying’/ ‘Renewal’/ ‘erection’ / ‘augmentation’ of  
Broad-Gauge Railway Track as per Indian Railway Permanent Way Manual 
(IRPWM) which should have been in successful operation for atleast one 
(1) year”, within the preceding five (5) years from the last date of submission of 
application. 
Notes for Technical criteria: 
1. The word executed means that the applicant should have executed the work 
within preceding 05 (five) years prior to the date of application even if the 
contract has been started earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
2. Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided that the certificate issued by the main contractor is duly 
certified by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in 
support of qualifying requirements. 
3. The minimum executed value against the submitted credential works / similar 
works (as defined in section ‘F’) should be 3.2 Cr within five (5) years from the 
last date of submission of application. 
   
 
C Documents required in support of meeting Technical Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated at (B) above: 
Relevant PO / Work Order / Agreement copy and Client’s Completion 
Certificate/RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement. 
D FINANCIAL 
CRITERIA 
1. The Net Worth of the applicant shall not be less than 100% of 
the applicant’s paid up share capital as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year. In case the Applicant meets the 
requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries  
of its holding companies wherever applicable, the Net Worth of 
the Applicant and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not 
be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not  
be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals  
and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals 
2. In case the applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial 
statements on stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements of the applicant can be 
considered acceptable provided the applicant further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
A) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the applicant along with copies of the 
Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
B) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents, 
stating  that  the  unaudited  unconsolidated  financial 
   
 
 
  statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of 
the company. 
3. In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial 
year as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening are not 
available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company  
are under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for Financial criteria: 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual 
turnover. 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the 
meaning ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India, in 
vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum of the paid-up share capital and free 
reserves. Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the 
profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous 
expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
E Other 
Documents 
to be  
submitted 
i.  Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for 
the previous three completed financial years reckoned from 
the last date of submission application. In case, the audited 
results for the preceding financial year is not available, 
certification of financial statements from a practicing- 
chartered accountant is to be uploaded. In case, applicant 
is  not  able  to  submit  the  certificate  from  practicing 
   
 
 
  chartered accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of the three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial years shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO stating that the 
financial results are under audit as on date of application 
and certificate from the practicing chartered certifying the 
financial parameters are not available. 
ii. Udyam Registration / NSIC / SSI / MSME registration 
certificate and PF & GST/Service Tax registration 
certificate. 
iii. PAN, PF and GST registration certificates 
iv. NTPC may ask other / shortfall documents as necessary 
during evaluation 
F Similar 
Works 
Similar works means “Maintenance / laying & linking/erection/ 
renewal/ augmentation of Broad-gauge rail tracks as per Indian 
Railway Permanent Way manual “, within the preceding five (5) 
years from the last date of submission of application. 
G Execution 
Capability 
Criteria for 
Enlistment 
1. The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and 
Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of Enlisted Vendors shall be 
Rs.4,00,00,000 (Rs. Four Crores only). 
  2. If any applicant does not submit the required documents so  
that their Execution Capability/ AATO equals or exceeds 
Rs.4,00,00,000 (Rs. Four Crores only)., such applicant shall 
not be considered for enlistment even if they meet the 
qualifying Requirement (QR) of subject Enlistment. 
  3. The Execution Capability (EC) based upon Technical Criteria 
will be defined / calculated as under: 
  Execution Capability (EC) = 1.25 x * Max Value of Work 
Executed in a Single PO / Work Order, as established 
during evaluation of Applications 
  * Illustration(s): 
  a) Maximum value of work executed in single PO of 
applicant is Rs 3.2 Crore. Then, his execution capability 
(EC) will be considered as 1.25*3.2=Rs. 4 Crores. 
   
 
 
  
b) Maximum value of work executed in single PO of 
applicant is Rs 20 Crore. Then, his execution capability 
(EC) will be considered as 1.25*20=Rs. 25 Crores. 
c) Maximum value of work executed in single PO of 
applicant is Rs 40 Crore. Then, his execution capability 
(EC) will be considered as 1.25*40=Rs. 50 Crores. 
d) Maximum value of work executed in single PO of 
applicant is Rs 45 Crore. Then, his execution capability 
(EC) will be considered as Rs. 50 Crores. 
e) Maximum value of work executed in single PO of 
applicant is Rs 100 Crore. Then, his execution  
capability (EC) will be considered as Rs. 50 Crores. 
4. Thus, as illustrated above, even if an Applicant / Vendor 
submits PO of executed value greater than Rs 40 Crore, his 
execution capability (EC) based on Technical Criteria will be 
limited and considered upto Rs 50 Crore. 
5. Upon completion of the enlistment process, the enlisted 
vendor(s) shall be considered for execution of the value of 
work from Rs. 4 Crs. to 50 Crs under a future tender as per 
their qualification established during the process of enlistment. 
Notes for Execution capability: 
1) For calculating the execution capability, the ‘Executed 
Value’ of only those BOQ Items shall be considered which 
are pertaining exclusively to the technical qualifying 
requirement of B.1 or B.2 or Both. 
2) The word “Executed” means the applicant should have 
achieved the criteria specified in the qualifying 
requirements within the preceding Five (5) year period  
even if the contract has been started earlier and/or is not 
completed/ closed. 
3) ‘Executed Value’ means basic value (excluding taxes). 
H BRIEF 
SCOPE OF  
The brief scope of work will generally include: - 
a) Through packing, Overhauling, Slack packing & Lifting of 
 
 
 
 
 WORK MGR Rly Track. 
b) Points Overhauling, Packing & Lifting 
c) Curve Alignment, Track Hopper Maintenance, Removal of 
Spilled Coal. 
d) Writing & Painting, Drain Cleaning, Earth Work 
e) De-weeding. 
f) Renewal of Sleeper & Rails, Drilling, Cutting of Rails. 
g) Supervision of Work by PWI / P-way Supervisor. 
h) Inspection of Track by Key-man 
i) Trolley-man 
j) Night Patrolmen/Rain Patrolmen. 
k) Deep Screening, 
l) Material shifting 
m) Fabrication Work 
n) Curve Lubrication, ERC Lubrication, Fish plate lubrication 
o) Hand Point Oiling / Maintenance 
p) Manpower Supply - Blacksmith 
q) Rails & Sleeper Shifting for 1Km & 1/2Km 
r) Anticorrosive Painting of Rails 
s) Track Maintenance tools & equipments 
t) Other works as per the Indian Railway Permanent Way 
Manual(IRPWM) 
I Quality Plan 
(if 
Applicable) 
NOT APPLICABLE 
J Category of 
Enlistment 
CATEGORY-II 
 