 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
USSC, VDC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
 
1 
 
CEG No. 
 
TMD-22 
 
2 
 
CEG DESCRIPTION 
 
Material Mix up (Dissimilar metal checking) checking & other 
NDT works for TG area 
 
3 
 
RESPONSIBILITY 
CENTRE 
 
CPG1 / VEC 
 
 
 
4 
  
All area of TG/Power cycle piping including 
 
AREA OF EXECUTION 1. Warmup piping, 
OF WORK 2. Drain piping 
 3. Vent piping 
 
 
 
   
4. Impulse lines 
 
5. Thermowells 
 
6. Deaerator & FWST 
 
7. LP/HP extraction line 
 
8. Metallic expansion joints 
 
9. Emergency drains lines of TG area, 
 
10. Piping of Main turbine/ MS/ CRH/ HRH/ HPBYPASS/ 
LPBYPASS / Gland steam lines lines 
 
11. Any other area as per instruction of EIC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BRIEF SCOPE OF 
WORK for 
CONTRACTOR 
 
1.Material Mix Up (Dissimilar metal checking) 
The work against this job includes  deployment of skilled and 
experienced manpower for checking of dissimilar metal using XRF 
analyser (PMI) of TG area piping. The dissimilar metals is to be 
checked in all bends/pipes/socket couplings and other identified 
points of TG Area. 
 
The dissimilar metals are to be checked in all bend/pipes/socket 
couplings and other identified points of TG integral piping/drain 
piping/warm-up piping /impulse piping of M ain 
Turbine/MS/CRH/HRH/LP/HP BYPASS line, steam extraction line 
and any other lines as instructed by the EIC. 
 
The party has to plan for the activities of a particular day in 
consultation with the EIC in one day advance, so that maximum 
area can be covered in a particular day in an organized manner and 
all preparatory work as fixing of scaffolding if required, removal of 
insulation from the pipe and surface preparation for dissimilar metal 
checking to be done well in advance 
 
The party has to submit testing reports on a daily basis to the EIC 
for recording his observations and the same shall be witnessed by 
the EIC in charge. Marking of each point and line shall be done and 
the same shall be maintained in the report along with the 
composition and material for easy identification and rectification 
work. 
 
The XRF analyser with calibration certificate along with  
calibration checking block for above work is in vendor's scope. As 
the work is to done in OH & there are lot of points to be measured, 
sufficient teams/analysers shall be deployed as per instructions of 
EIC. 
 
 
 
   
One measurement team shall consist of minimum 2 members & 1 
no. analyser. 
 
Grinding/Buffing in the scope of vendor for PMI (Positive Material 
Identification) Check 
 
UOM (Unit of Measurement) 01 no is considered as 01 spot 
 
After completion of total job, the service engineer shall submit his 
detail job report within 7 working days to EIC. 
 
The submitted report must have the isometric drawing of tested 
pipelines for clear and easy picturization of above jobs 
 
2. Scaffolding erection & removal: 
 
Necessary scaffolding are to be made to carry out the 
inspection/testing/survey jobs Party has to bring the scaffolding 
material for the work on returnable basis. After work completion, 
scaffolding to be removed and area to be cleaned. 
 
3. Scaffolding Material Transportation: 
 
Transportation of scaffolding material from vendor’s store to  NTPC 
Plant & vice versa. 
 
4. Insulation/cladding removal cum reapplication 
The work against this job include deployment of skilled and 
experienced manpower for removal/reapplication of insulation cum 
cladding. 
 
5. Deployment of manpower : The work against this job include 
deployment of Highly skilled and experienced for quality checks 
coordination with FQA & report generation on daily basis. All 
welding’s visual inspection and report preparation. inspection of 
pipes/elbows/socket couplings visual for overheating, erosion etc 
,hardness/thickness to be checked & report to be prepared. 
 
Other NDT Jobs 
1)Thickness-(Survey/Study) 
Tube thickness of TG area piping is to be surveyed with the help  of 
calibrated D Meters for all bends/pipes/socket couplings and other 
identified points of TG Area 
 
The thickness survey shall be done by skilled and experienced  
manpower. 
 
 
 
   
The agency shall deploy sufficient Nos of calibrated thickness 
gauges and necessary consumables such as emery paper, wire brush, 
cleaning cloths, greases etc. Tube surface grinding/buffing at hard 
scale/clinker formed areas to be done. Before start of thickness 
measurements, visual inspection of the area to be done for 
abnormality such as pitting, cut, Ovality, erosion and dents etc as 
per instruction of EIC. 
 
Agency must arrange ultrasonic thickness gauge (D -Meter), with 
proper calibration certificate. Instruments must be having minimum 
resolution 0.1 mm. 
Note: In UOM (Unit of Measurement) 01 no is considered as 01 
spot. 
Grinding/Buffing in the scope of vendor . 
 
2)DP Testing 
The scope of work shall include DPT of all welds and other 
identified points of TG Area. DPT kit is in the scope of agency 
(DPT kit, Cleaner, Penetrant, Developer shall be of same make and 
have proper validity). 
 
3) Hardness Checking 
The work against this job include deployment of skilled and 
experienced manpower for checking of Hardness of TG area piping 
The hardness testing machine duly calibrated with calibration 
certificate, accessories, consumables, calibration block are in the 
scope of contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENT 
 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment shall meet 
the Qualifying Requirements stipulated here under: 
 
Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 The applicant should have executed the work (s) of Material 
Mix-up checking (Dissimilar metal identification) of power -cycle 
piping in Power Plant having Minimum Unit Size of 200 MW, 
within preceding 05 (five) years reckoned as on the Last Date of 
submission of application. 
 
AND 
 
1.2 The applicant should have executed the work (s) of Thickness 
survey / DP Testing / Hardness Testing of power-cycle piping in 
 
 
 
   
Power Plant having Minimum Unit Size of 200 MW, within 
preceding 05 (five) years reckoned as on the Last Date of 
submission of application. 
 
 
7 
 
NOTE FOR 
TECHNICAL 
QUALIFYING 
REQUIREMENT 
 
Power cycle piping includes any of the followings piping systems 
such as MS, CRH, HRH, HP Bypass, LP Bypass, Gland steam 
lines, Warmup piping, drain piping, vent piping, impulse lines, 
thermowells, deaerator & FWST, LP/HP extraction line. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT TO BE 
SUBMITTED BY 
VENDOR IN SUPPORT OF 
MEETING QR 
 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, 
terms and conditions, BOQ POs (issued within last Five (5) years 
reckoned as on the Last Date of submission of application in 
support of award and copy of Client's Completion certificate/RA 
Bill/ final deviation statement from the concerned client /copies 
of invoice to establish successful execution as per QR. 
 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. 
   
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents are 
required to be submitted by the applicants applying for 
enlistment: - 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL 
DOCUMENTS TO BE 
SUBMITTED 
1.Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of  similar 
work during previous five years from the date of submission o f 
application and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final 
Deviation Statement from the concerned client in support of 
successful execution of jobs against each of the POs to be 
submitted. 
  2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement    for 
the previous three completed financial years reckoned from the 
Last date of application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available, then certified copy by a registered practicing 
Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
  3.NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
 
 
 
   
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations 
available with the applicant. 
 
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
NTPC can ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all 
documents/ facilities can be verified/ assessed if required. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES 
 
1) The word “Executed" mentioned in technical qualifying 
requirement means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
 
2) In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed 
prior to the date of application duly certified by the applicant’s 
client shall be considered acceptable. 
 
Reference work executed by the applicant as a sub -contractor 
may also be considered provided the certificate issued by main 
contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the scope of 
work executed by the applicant in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
 
3) Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is 
composite (i.e. including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to 
give break -up of composite PO value mentioning basic value, 
taxes etc. Any separate re- imbursement / escalation will not be 
considered. 
 
4) “Similar work” means works as mentioned in the QR 
technical criteria. 
 
5) All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the 
Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.pdf 
11 QUALITY PLAN Not Applicable 
12 CATEGORY OF 
ENLISTMENT 
Category-1 