NSPCL (A joint Venture of NTPC & SAIL) 
 
SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, Bhilai  CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
Section-I  
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT)  FOR” BIENNIAL CONTRACT FOR MOTOR TRANSFORMER AND 
GENERATOR COOLER MAINTENANCE AT PP-II AND MOTOR MAINTENANCE & SERVICE 
TRANSFORMER PAINTING AT PP-3. 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Tender Ref: NSPCL-Bhilai/  
GEM Bid no. GEM/2026/B/7610294 
1.0 NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED (NSPCL)  invites online bids through GeM Portal on 
“Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis (Envelope-I: Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: 
Price Bid)” from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned 
hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of BIENNIAL CONTRACT FOR MOTOR TRANSFORMER AND 
GENERATOR COOLER MAINTENANCE AT PP-II AND MOTOR MAINTENANCE & SERVICE 
TRANSFORMER PAINTING AT PP-3. 
 
               NSPCL intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) GeM Portal and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category Services* 
Source of IFB/NIT NSPCL-SSC-Bhilai 
Mode of Tendering Custom Bid Service on GeM Portal 
NIT Date  
As per details at GeM Portal 
Document sale Commencement Date 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any) 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Bid Security / EMD Rs. 2,00,000/- 
Benefit to MSME Applicable.  
Contract Period 24 Months 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact NOT Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on online portal”. 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on GeM Portal only. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-Commercial Proposal” 
and “Price Proposal” online (https://gem.gov.in), within the bid submission date and time as 
mentioned on Gem Portal. Only Techno-Commercial proposals will be opened on the date and timed 
mentioned on Gem Portal. 
 
Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://gem.gov.in. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount (as mentioned at Clause 3.0 above) and 
Integrity Pact. Integrity Pact shall be submitted as per instruction mentioned in ITB/SCC. 
"ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY  SHALL BE REJECTED BY 
THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED.  
5.0 BIDDER PARTICIPATION CRITERIA: 
                                                          QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT 
Name of Work: BIENNIAL CONTRACT FOR MOTOR TRANSFORMER AND GENERATOR COOLER 
MAINTENANCE AT PP-II AND MOTOR MAINTENANCE & SERVICE TRANSFORMER PAINTING AT PP-
3. 
 
The Bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they 
fulfil the following qualifying Requirements: 
6.0 Qualifying Requirement 
The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they 
fulfil the following Qualifying Requirements. 
6.1 Technical Criteria: 
6.1.1 The bidder should have executed Similar Work(s) during the preceding 7 (Seven) 
years reckoned as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening having: 
a. Executed value not less than Rs. 37.05 Lakhs in a Single Order 
OR 
b. Executed value not less than Rs. 23.16 Lakhs each in Two Orders separately 
OR 
c. Executed value not less than Rs.18.53 Lakhs each in Three Orders separately 
&9Note (i) The phrase “similar works” means: 
“The bidder should have a valid electrical license Class "A”. The bidder should have 
experience of overhauling of LT motors of minimum 100kW & HT motors of minimum 
300kW" 
 
(ii) The word “Executed” means the bidder should have achieved the criterion 
specified in the Qualifying Requirement even if the total contract is not completed/ 
closed. A work executed in the preceding seven (7) years, even it has been started 
earlier, will also be considered for meeting the requirement against Clause No. 6.1.1 
above. Agency has to furnish proof of executed value of the work in the form of copies 
of RA Bills, relevant PO copy and client's Completion Certificate/ Final Deviation 
Statement etc. in support of meeting the qualifying requirement. 
 
(iii) Reference work executed by bidder as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by the main contractor is duly 
certified by the Project Authority specifying the work executed by the sub-
contractor in support of the qualifying requirements. 
 
(iv)  All values as mentioned in Clause 6.1.1 shall be Exclusive of all taxes and duties.  
6.2 Financial Criteria 
6.2.1 Average Annual Turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall not be less than  Rs. 46.32 Lakhs 
(Rupees Forty Six Lakhs Thirty Two Thousand only). 
6.2.2 In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno 
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to 
submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the form at enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit as 
on the date of Techno commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
&9Note 1. Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
2. The figures indicated in 6.2.1 are Exclusive of Taxes and Duties 
  required, 
certificate in support of taxes and duties to be provided from Chartered 
Accountant 
 
 
6.0 Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), 
which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique 
Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council 
of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
7.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group 
companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the 
overall interest of the Employer. 
 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be limited 
to the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of 
credentials. A negative determination of such assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may 
result in rejection of the bid.  
 
8.0 “ Bidders are required to furnish the details of the past experience like authentic Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, client certificates, 
completion certificate, Financial Details   etc. in support of meeting the Qualifying 
Requirements based on which selection is to be made as per format in Attachment -3 
FORM FOR QUALIFICATION DETAILS .( mandatory)  
9.0       No change in the price or substance of the bid including substitution of Purchase        
Orders/Contracts declared in Attachment-3 of the bid with new/additional Purchase 
Orders/Contracts for conforming to Qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted.  
10.0 The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered to 
ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The Employer at its 
discretion may seek any clarification and/or documentary evidence only for the reference works as 
mentioned above. However, no change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant for 
conforming to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”. 
 
“Bidders are required to furnish the details of the past experience like authentic Work 
Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, client certificates, completion 
certificate, etc. in support of meeting the Qualifying Requirements based on which selection is to be 
made as per format. However, if any of the Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of 
Awards/Contract Agreements pertains to the work executed by Bidder for NSPCL/NTPC  in the past, 
then in respect of such Work Orders/Purchase Orders/Letter of Awards/Contract Agreements, 
Bidder shall not be required to enclose Client Certificate along with its Bid.” 
 
    i) All the  bidders are required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the 
documents, in support of Technical Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ 
Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for 
authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party 
Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
 
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Bidders can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Auditor 
certifying the data required for meeting the Technical Qualification Requirements.  
 
 ii) Such bidder shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their Statutory 
Auditors or specified TPIA in support of meeting Technical QR along with a certificate regarding 
verification of authenticity of documents as per the format placed at Annexure-II (Appendix-1 to 
Attachment-3 - Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ or Annexure-III (Appendix-2 to 
Attachment-3 - Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the bidder in support of 
meeting Technical QR shall be digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
 
       iii) In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the verification and 
certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIAs:  
1) SGS India Pvt. Ltd 
2) International Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
3) TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd 
4) TÜV SÜD South Asia Pvt. Ltd.         
5) TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group)                 
6) Intertek India Pvt. Ltd.                                  
7)  Competent Inspectorate and Consultants Pvt. Ltd.    
8) KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
9) ICS India Pvt. Ltd. 
10) Assure Quality Management Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. 
11) Hertz Inspection & Services Pvt. Ltd. 
12) Industrial Inspection and Verification Services (I) Pvt. Ltd.      
13) IRCLASS Systems & Solutions Private Limited    
14) Quality Services & Solutions Pvt. Ltd.                  
15) Phistream Consulting Pvt. Ltd.       
16) Conformity India International Pvt. Ltd.        
17) Dr. Amin Controllers Pvt. Ltd. (Amin)          
18) RSJ Inspection Service Limited (RSJ)   
 
The following website may be referred for contact details of above eighteen (18) TPIAs:  
 
http://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php  
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is not 
certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the bidder, as per the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the 
bid shall be liable for rejection. 
 
    iv) The Bidder shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials in support of Qualifying 
Requirements verified & certified by their Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs 
pertaining to third party verification and certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be 
borne by the Bidder. Employer shall have no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and 
shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor. 
 
11.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
12.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
13.0 NSPCL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
14.0 The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded 
by any interested Bidder from the GeM Portal (https://gem.gov.in). The Bidder would be required 
to register on the website.  
First time users are required to register themselves on GeM Portal only. First time users not allotted 
any vendor code by NSPCL, should send a copy of the registration details to the e-mail address 
specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following details at least three working 
days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank  
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
15.0 Address for communication: 
 
AGM/DGM (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC SAIL POWER COMPANY LIMITED (NSPCL),  
Shared Service Centre, Bhilai  
Expansion Site, Near Purena Village, Bhilai (East) , PO-Dist:Durg(C.G.) 
Pin Code-490021 
Tel. No.: 0788-2282435 
Email: ak.sahoo@nspcl.co.in/, arti.choure@nspcl.co.in 
 
 Websites: https://gem.gov.in or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  or www.nspcl.co.in 
 
16.0 Registered Office: 
NSPCL,, 4TH Floor, NBCC Tower,  
15, Bhikaji Cama Place,  
New Delhi 
 