GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 2 OF 6  
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) EPC 
PACKAGE 
LOCATED AT 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND 
 (International Competitive Bidding) 
  IFB No.: CS-6401-001-2  
    Tender Id. No.: 2026_NTPC_104283_1 Date: 06.06.2026 
1. NTPC invites on -line bids for Great Nicobar Island Gas Engine Power Project (108
Mw ±5 Mw) EPC Package on GePNIC portal of NTPC at website - 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope -I:
Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for
aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.
2. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK
The scope of work includes Design, Engineering, Supply, Erection, Testing &
Commissioning works for Great Nicobar Island Engine based Gas Power Project
(108 ±5 MW) on the basis of a single point responsibility for complete EPC package
including civil works, covering the following activities and services in respect of all
the equipment specified and covered under the technical specifications.
1. Engines (compatible to fire 20 to 25% Hydrogen by volume)
2. Generator with excitation system
3. Engine exhaust system including chimney & continuous emission monitoring
system.
4. NOx Control system (if required) to maintain Nox level less than 80ppm (dry
volume basis corresponding to 15% excess oxygen in Engine exhaust)
5. Engine lube oil system
6. All galleries, walkways and platforms
7. Thermal Insulation
8. Intake gas system
9. Intake air system/ Starting air system
10. Engine cooling water system including radiator.
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 3 OF 6  
11. Control System
12. Erection and Commissioning of complete plant
13. Arrangement to make gas available at required parameters as per engine
requirement
14. Raw Water Pumps with drive near Reservoir (Inside Plant Boundary) and
associated water system.
15. Compressed air system for Instrument air & Service air.
16. Fire detection & Protection system
17. Fire Extinguisher & Fire Tenders
18. Air Conditioning System
19. Ventilation System
20. Elevator, crane, hoist & Forklift.
21. Complete Control & instrumentation system with all required measuring,
controlling & monitoring Instruments.
22. Generator & Auxiliary system.
23. Power Transformers, Auxiliary Transformer & their maintenance testing &
monitoring equipment.
24. 132/33 KV Indoor GIS
25. MV Switchgear, LV Switchgear & LV Busduct
26. DC System – Battery & battery Charger.
27. HT power cable/ LT Power & Control cables.
28. Station Lighting & DG Sets.
29. Rooftop Solar.
30. Cabling, Earthing, lighting protection
31. Training of Employer’s Personnel
32. Basic Engineering of the plant including preparation of plant design manuals
for the power project.
33. Detailed design of all the equipment and system(s) including civil, structural
steel works included in bidder's scope for the Project.
34. Providing engineering drawings, equipment sizing & performance data,
instruction manuals, as built drawings, O&M manuals and other information
for Employer's approval.
35. Compliance with 
statutory requirements and obtaining clearances from
statutory authorities, wherever required.
36. Complete manufacturing including shop testing/type testing.
37. Complete civil, structural and Architectural works, including
topographical survey, providing 
construction offices, field laboratory,
construction equipment, construction power and construction water.
38. Packing 
and transportation from the manufacturer's work to the site including
customs clearance/port clearance, port charges, if any.
39. Receipt, storage, preservation and conservation of equipment at the site.
40. Fabrication, pre-assembly, if any, erection, testing and putting into satisfactory
operation all the equipment including successful completion of facilities.
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 4 OF 6  
41. Reliability tests and owner acceptance including the tests for performance
demonstration after successful completion of facilities.
42. Furnishing of spares on FOR (Freight on Road) site basis.
43. Reconciliation with customs authorities, in case of foreign bidders.
44. Satisfactory conclusion of the Contract.
45. Insurance and other requirements for the complete Power plant package in
accordance with the provisions of general conditions of contract of the bidding
document.
46. One year supervision during operation and maintenance with deputation of 1
operation and 1 maintenance expert post successful completion of initial/trial
operations & Performance guarantee tests including Demonstration tests
(whichever occurs later).
47. Execution and completion of civil, structural, architectural, and electrical
works for the enabling township
The Power plant is expected to run for its life on RLNG as fuel for the project  along 
with its compatibility to fire 20 to 25% Hydrogen by volume. 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
3. NTPC intends to finance Great Nicobar Island Gas Engine Power Project (108
Mw ±5 Mw) EPC Package through a mix of debt and equity.
4. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR
20,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Twenty Crore only) or USD 2, 095,400 (US
Dollars Two Million Ninety Five Thousand Four Hundred Only) in the form
as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY 
IN A SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE 
EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID 
SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC 
FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -
BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E -TENDERING 
PORTAL. 
5. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the
Bidding Documents, which are available at the GePNIC (e -tender) portal at
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under:
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 5 OF 6  
Issuance of NIT 06.06.2026 
Start of Documents Sale 06.06.2026 
Pre-Bid Conference Date 29.06.2026 
Last Date of Receipt of Query 02.07.2026 
Bid submission deadline [Envelope-I (Techno– 
Commercial) & Envelope-II (Price) bid] 
14.07.2026 up to 1300 Hrs.(IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for 
Envelope-I (Techno–Commercial) bid 
14.07.2026 at 1530 Hrs.(IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for Price-Bid Shall be intimated separately 
Note: *Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e -tender) portal of NTPC for 
updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be 
entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as 
specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC. 
6. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.
7. All Class -I local supplier, Class -II local supplier and Non -Local supplier are
eligible for participation in the tender. However, Purchase preference shall be given
to Class-I local suppliers only
8. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder
from the e-Tender Portal free of cost as per specified schedule. The tender is invited
under e -tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class -3
key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e -tendering.
Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from agencies authorized by Govt.
of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed guidelines on
enrolment and participation in the bidding process.
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted
only at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/
9. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 6 OF 6  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
10. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is   
not permissible. 
 
11. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
12. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for 
Bids under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
13. Address for Communication: 
Sr. Mgr. (CS)/DGM (CS)/AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA   
Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-01204946545/9650997982//01204946522/9650099276/9650991817 
 
 E-mail: priyanka@ntpc.co.in /  amitk@ntpc.co.in / bmandal@ntpc.co.in 
 
 Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
14. Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
Appendix-I
Qualifying Requirements for Great Nicobar Island Gas 
Engine Power Project (108 MW ±5 MW) EPC Package: 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the 
Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in clauses 1.1.0 
or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 as the case may be and the clause 2.0.0 along with the notes: 
Technical Criteria 
1.1.0 Route 1: Engine Manufacturer 
The Bidder should be an Engine manufacturer who has designed, manufactured, 
supplied and commissioned/ supervised commissioning of at least one (01) Gas 
Engine for power generation, having minimum rating as that of the offered Gas 
Engine which should have logged a minimum of 4000 fired/operating hours since 
commissioning and should have been in successful operation, for a period of at least 
one (01) year, prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
1.2.0 Route 2: Engineering, Procurement & Construction 
1.2.0(i) The bidder should have executed in last 10 years contracts involving engineering, 
supply, erection/supervision of erection, commissioning/supervision of 
commissioning, in the area of power, steel, oil & gas, petro-chemical, fertilizer, flue 
gas desulphurization, cement  and / or any other process industry with the total value 
of such contracts being INR 1000 million or more. At least one such contracts should 
have a contract value of INR 300 million or more. These projects should have been 
in successful operation for a period of not less than one (01) year prior to the date 
of techno-commercial bid opening. 
1.2.0(ii) The Bidder shall associate/collaborate with an Engine Manufacturer meeting 
requirements of 1.1.0 above, who shall also be the supplier of the Gas Engines for 
this contract. In such an event, the Bidder along with its techno-commercial bid, shall 
furnish a letter of undertaking from above associate/collaborator, as per format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, for successful performance of Gas Engines, 
failing which the bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected. 
1.3.0 Route-3: Indian Subsidiary Company of Engine Manufacturer 
The Bidder should be an Indian subsidiary of a firm meeting the requirements of clause 
1.1.0. The firm meeting the requirement of clause 1.1.0 shall be the supplier of Gas 
Engines for this contract. 
 
Further the bidder should have executed/be executing in last 10 years contracts involving 
engineering, supply, erection/supervision of erection, commissioning/supervision of 
commissioning, in the area of power, steel, oil & gas, petro-chemical, fertilizer,  flue gas 
desulphurization, cement and / or any other process industry with the total value of such 
contracts being INR 1000 million or more. At least one of such contracts should have a 
contract value of INR 300 million or more. 
 
Note:  
1. For qualification under clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0, a firm can meet the 
requirements stipulated under clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 above either singularly 
or collectively along with its Subsidiaries (held directly or indirectly)/ Holding 
Company. In case of the firm meeting the requirements of clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 
1.3.0 collectively along with its subsidiary(ies)/ Holding Company, the Bidder along 
with its techno-commercial bid  shall furnish a letter jointly signed by the bidder 
and  the Holding Company/ all its Subsidiary(ies) extending support to the bidder 
for complying the requirements of clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 for successful 
performance of the Contract, as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents, 
failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected.  
 
2a. The word “executed” in Clause 1.2.0(i) & Clause 1.3.0 means the Bidder should 
have: 
 
(i) in case of Project(s), commissioned the project(s) specified in the Clause 
1.2.0(i)/ Clause 1.3.0 even if the contract has been started earlier and / or 
is not completed / closed.  
(ii) in case of Contract(s), completed the scope of work under the contract(s) 
specified in the Clause 1.2.0(i)/ Clause 1.3.0 even if the contract has been 
started earlier and / or is not closed. 
 
    2b. The word “be executing” in Clause 1.3.0 means the Bidder should have received   
the contract prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
3. For Clause 1.2.0 & 1.3.0  -The value of executed works shall be given a simple 
weightage to bring them at current price level by adding 5% for each year on 
prorata basis after the end date of completion/execution of the reference work, till 
the last day of month previous to one in which NIT has been invited. 
 
The specified value of executed works (i.e. INR 1000 million or more and INR 300 
million or more) is excluding any taxes and duties. 
 
2.0.0 Financial Criteria: 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than  INR 
4410 Million (Indian Rupees Four Thousand Four Hundred and Ten Million 
only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter 
of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.1.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year.  In case the Bidder 
does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net 
worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a case, however 
the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of 
their respective paid up share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following 
further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
i. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its 
Holding Company. 
ii. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual 
Report of the Company. 
 
2.1.4 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable.  
In case, the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial 
results is not available, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the respective CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that “ the financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial 
bid opening and the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant are not available”. 
2.2.0 Financial Criteria for the Collaborator(s) / Associate (s) 
2.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) , in the 
preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, 
should not be less than INR 2200 Million (Indian Rupees Two Thousand Two 
Hundred Million only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case the Collaborator/Associate does not satisfy the average annual turnover 
criteria above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the 
stipulated turnover requirements at Cl. 2.2.1 above, provided that the net worth of 
such Holding Company, as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an 
event, the Collaborator/Associate would be required to furnish along with bidder's 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, 
supported by Board Resolution of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
with the bidding documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support to the Collaborator/Associate to honour the terms and conditions of the 
Undertaking in case of award of the Contract to the Bidder with whom 
Collaborator/Associate is associated. 
2.2.2 The Net Worth of each Collaborator/Associate, as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid-up share capital.  In case the 
Collaborator/Associate does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet 
the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Collaborator/Associate 
and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the 
Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth 
should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid up 
share capitals.   
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.2.3 In case the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) is not able to furnish its audited financial 
statements on standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) can be considered acceptable 
provided the Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) furnishes the following further documents 
on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Collaborator(s) / Associate(s) along with copies of the audited consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company of Collaborator(s) / Associate(s). 
 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the consolidated financial 
statements of the Holding Company of Collaborator/Associate. 
2.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable.  
In case, the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial 
results is not available, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the respective CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that “the financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening and the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant are 
not available”. 
2.3.0 Financial Criteria for the Holding Company (in case of Bidder participating 
through Route-3) 
The Holding company should meet the financial criteria as given in clause 2.1.0 for Bidder. 
NOTES: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of 
Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or 
written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning ascribed 
to them as per Companies Act of India. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven 
(7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
(v) For Turnover and Net worth, only standalone Financial Statement of 
Bidder/Associate/Collaborator/Holding/subsidiary(s) shall be considered. 
 