Page 1 of 56 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users 
from APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
 
ARAVALI POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
(A JOINT VENTURE OF APCPL LIMITED, HPGCL & IPGCL) 
 
 
Invitation for Expression of Interest (EOI) 
For Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users From 
INDIRA GANDHI SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT 
Stage-I 
 
EOI Reference: APCPL/AU/01/EOI/26-27/CRN4645 
 
 
 
 
INDEX 
 
Sl. Description Page No. 
1. SECTION – I: General Information. 2-15 
2. SECTION – II: Guidelines for submission of Offer 16-16 
3. SECTION – III: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 17-19 
4. SECTION IV: Formats & Annexures 20-42 
5. SECTION V: Other Condi tions of contract 43-56 

 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
2  
Section I 
General Information 
 
 
1. General Details about APCPL: 
 
ARAVALI POWER COMPANY PRIVATE LIMITED (A PCPL), a Joint Venture  Company of 
APCPL Ltd., HPGCL & IPGCL, having its Register ed Office at  APCPL Bhawan, Core-7, SCOPE 
Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delh i – 110003 and its Head Quarters at office at 
Village Jharli, Tehsil-Matanhail, Distt-Jhajjar, Haryana – 124141, (henceforth referred to as APCPL / 
Supplier/seller which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to 
include its successors and permitted  assigns) intends to promote util ization of fly ash as resource 
material. To facilitate this, APCPL wishes to sell fly ash to Interested bidders who are micro and small 
enterprises engaged in ash-based pr oduct manufacturing namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold 
bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sh eets, pipes, boards, panels [as per para D(4) inserted to the 
MOEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 31.12.2021 
amended on 01.01.2024] and local user. The commencement of sale shall start from 01.07.2026 or the 
date of start as decided by EIC. Period of sale will be valid for One year.  
APCPL  thus invites eligible and interested micro and small enterprises and local users to participate in 
the EOI for allocation of Dry Fly Ash from APCPL as stipulated in revised guidelines of MOPs dated 
30.01.2026 to Coal and Lignite based Thermal Power Pl ants (TPPs) to utilize as h in accordance with 
MOEF&CC notifications as mentioned above. 
 
2. Scope of Supply: 
APCPL invites eligible and interested micro and smal l enterprises and local users to participate in the 
EOI ,engaged in ash-based product manufacturing namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded 
ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards,  panels from Ash Silo chutes / Other Suitable 
Locations as decided by Engineer-In-Charge of APCPL, on “As Available” basis. 
 
Total quantity of Fly Ash in MT is available for sale as per detail given hereunder:  
 
Power Stations/Location Total Quantity 
offered for Sale 
Fly Ash Quality to 
be supplied 
Period of Sale 
Indira Gandhi Super Thermal 
Power Station of  
Aravali Power Company Pvt. 
Ltd. 
Post: Jharli  
Dist: Jhajjar  
Haryana -124141 
 
To MSEs engaged 
in ash-based 
product 
manufacturing: 
3,80,000 MT 
(minimum 80,000 
MT shall be issued 
to Local Users) 
 
on “As Available” 
basis 
 
One [01] Year 
 
NOTE: EMD/Bid Security amount of Rs.  15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand only) must be submitted 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
3  
through Wire Transfer (NEFT/RTGS/EFT) only. EM D shall be deposited from the account of 
respective bidder. Any documents for EOI shall be only considered after receiving valid EMD as per 
clause 6.a of General Conditions to participate in EOI.   
 
3. EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
APCPL invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for bidders mentioned below: 
 
(a)  Micro & Small Enterprises (MSEs): 
MSEs engaged in manufacturing of ash-based products such as bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold-
bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, and panels, and having either a valid 'Consent 
to Operate' (CTO) issued by CPCB / SPCBs, wherever applicable, or a valid MSE / Udyam registration 
certificate. 
(b) Local Users: 
'Local Users' situated within a 100 km radius of the plant, on the basis of a self-declaration, 
confirming that the ash will be utilized solely for eco-friendly purposes. 
        How to apply:  
 
Interested Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) /Local Users/Bidders desirous of receiving dry fly ash from 
APCPL as per the terms and conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with 
specified documents and duly filled in enclosed on by Bidder” through eProcurement Portal  with link 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app Portal on or before the last date of document submission as per portal. 
 
4. Eligibility for MSEs Participation/ Local Users Participation: All bidders, fulfilling the following 
criteria, are eligible to participate in the EOI: 
a. The bidder must have a valid Udyam Registration Certificate, MSE registered under Trader(s) and / 
or Service provider(s) shall not be allowed to bid under this EOI. (As per MSME Notification S.O. 
2119 (E) dated 26th June 2020, from 1st June 2022, Udya m registration shall be the ONLY valid 
MSME Registration Document. Except Udyam Re gistration Certificate no other registration 
documents will be considered for MSEs exemption and benefits for bids, unless until GOI extends the 
validity of other MSEs registration certificate.)  
b.  The bidder must be a manufacturer, engaged in making ash-based products like bricks, blocks, tiles, 
sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, fiber cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as mentioned in the 
para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on ash utilization from coal or lignite thermal power 
plants dated 31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024. In orde r to meet the above requirement, bidder is 
required to submit relevant documents like Consent to Operate Order from CPCB / SPCB wherever 
applicable, Registration certificate from the concerned state industries / revenue / etc., License to Work 
as a Factory, Pollution Clearance Certificate wher ever applicable, Documentary evidence for the 
production capacity of the plant or any other relevant documents for es tablishing that the bidder is 
manufacturer of one or more aforesaid ash-based products. 
c.  The bidder who submits an Undertaking as per prescribed format (Annexure – C), executed on non-
judicial Stamp Paper, duly Notarized by a notary public), duly signed by authorized signatory of the 
bid, inter- alia confirming the following:  
i. The bidder is a micro and small enterprise, engaged in manufacturing of ash-based product namely 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
4  
bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels 
as per para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal 
power plants dated 31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024.  
ii. The bidder shall utilize / ensure utilization of ash (bought under the subject Auction) under eco-
friendly avenues as per extant MoEF&CC Notification.  
d.  The successful bidders, during execution, shall be required to submit a Notarized Affidavit as per 
prescribed format (Annexure – D), on half yearly basis regarding ‘actual utilization of already issued 
ash’.  
e. Have uploaded the required documents at portal before the last day of submission of documents as 
per and found correct as per terms and conditions of EOI document, along with all relevant Annexures 
duly filled say ‘no deviation statement, Fraud prevention policy, etc. 
f. Please note that technical cover comprising of all the above do cuments shall be opened only 
after Fee cover (EMD submission verification). Any documents for EOI shall be only considered 
after receiving valid EMD as per clause 6.a of General Conditions to participate in EOI.   
 
5. Eligibility for Local Users Participation: The local user have  to submit the documents mentioned 
above in Clause-4 and the Addre ss Proof along with self-notarized affidavit of radial distance 100 
KM from APCPL with Geo-tagged photo and google map screen shot showing the radial distance.  
 
6. Documents to be Submitted: 
 
6.a. Documents Required for MSEs/ Local Users during applying for EOI 
 
o Proof of Submission of EMD 
o Valid Udyam Registration Certificate under manufacturing category. 
o Anyone of the following Relevant document(s) for establishing the bidder to be a manufacturer of 
one or more ash based product namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, 
fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as mentioned in the para D(4) inserted to the MOEF&CC 
Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 31.12.2021 amended 
on 01.01.2024  
• Consent to Operate Order from CPCB/ SPCB, if applicable 
• Registration certificate from th e concerned state industries/re venue/etc departments, or 
License to Work as a Factory as may be applicable. 
• Pollution Clearance Certificate as may be applicable. 
• Documentary evidence for the production capacity of the plant as may be applicable, such 
as purchased order of plant & machinery, sale invoice of ash product etc 
o PAN CARD 
o GST Registration, as may be applicable. 
o Company registration as may be applicable. 
o Business details of the participant / applicant. 
o Notarized affidavit for utilization of ash solely for eco-friendly purposes as per undertaking format 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
5  
attached at  Annexure C 
o Geo tagged photograph of the installed machine/Manufacturing location.   
o Address Proof along with self-notarized affidavit of radial distance of the plant from APCPL along 
with google map screen shot. 
o Annexure A, Format for Submission of Response to EOI. 
o Annexure B, Certificate of Compliance. 
o Annexure H, No Deviation Certificate. 
o Annexure J, Acceptance of fraud prevention policy of APCPL. 
o Annexure K, Integrity Pact/ Compliance on policy of debarment from business dealings of NTPC 
Ltd/APCPL. 
6.b Annexures to be submitted by both Local Users & MSE post award of the contract: 
1. Annexure G, Indemnity Bond 
2. Annexure D Affidavit (to be submitted on half yearly basis) 
 
General Conditions to participate in EOI. 
 
1. Interested bidders Please note following points before participation in subject EOI 
a. In case of individual applicant, the bidder should be at a minimum of 18 years of age. 
b. In case of other MSE manufacturer with out fly ash-based manufacturer & MSE 
Traders/service/Consortium will not be considered against subject EOI. 
c. Bidder must submit geotagged images of manufacturing location. 
d. The Bidder shall be of Indian nationality AND / OR  a Company/ Sole Proprietorship /      
Partnership / Limited Liability Partnership / Consortium / Cooperative Society registered in India 
AND / OR Non-Resident Indians/ Person of I ndian Origin AND / OR a Multinational Company 
having its registered office in Indi a / Overseas Corporate Bodies ha ving its registered office in 
India. 
e. Bidding for the subject package is open to bidders from within the Employer's country only, subject 
to fulfilment of conditions "Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares 
a land border with India 
f. Bids are liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. Documents of any prospective bidders 
received offline / through e-Mail / Other means at NTPC Location / s will not be entertained and will 
not be considered by APCPL for evaluation. However, in ca se of shortfall in the submitted 
documents, APCPL at its sole discretion, may solicit the shortfall documents from the bidders who 
have uploaded the documents at Portal. 
2. Contract Period: - The lifting permission shall be valid for a period of One (01) year from date of 
issue. The Applicant shall have to  lift the entire quant ity of fly ash allotted  to bidder through the 
Lifting Permission within One (01) year. If the bi dder fails to lift the a llotted quantity within the 
stipulated time due to reasons solely attributable to the bidder, no extension of time shall be granted.  
3. Offer/Concessional Price: The Dry Fly Ash will be made available at the rate of ₹290 per MT plus 
taxes (GST) as applicable. Transportation shall be in the scope of bidder. 
 
4. Allocation of Dry Fly ash Quantity: 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
6  
 
Allocation of Dry Fly Ash shall be made strictly on pro-rata basis among eligible app licants, subject to 
availability of the reserved quantity of 3,80,000 MT for: 
• MSEs engaged in ash-based product manufacturing, and  
• Local Users Category  
Out of the above reserved quantity, a minimum of 80,000 MT shall be reserved to Local Users.  
The quantity allocation shall be ca rried out among all eligible bidde rs on pro-rata basis by dividing Total 
Reserved Quantity with Number of Eligible bidders. The allocation to each bidder shall be restricted to lower of the 
following quantities: 
1. Quantity quoted by the bidder at Sl. No. 6 of Annexure-A, or  
2. Annual Fly Ash requirement as per available manuf acturing capacity self-declared by the bidder at 
Sl. No. 2.5 of Annexure-A.  
The Maximum Eligible Quantity (MEQ)  for allocation to any bidder shall be lower of the quantity 
mentioned at Sl. No. 6 of Annexure-A, or Sl. No. 2.5 of Annexure-A. 
If sum of total maximum eligible quantities (MEQ) of all the eligible local users is less than 80,000 MT, 
then, the quantities allocated to the local users shall be equal to maximum eligible quantities of each bidders 
and the balance quantity/unallocated quantity shall be distributed among other MSE bidders engaged in ash-
based product manufacturing.   
If sum of total maximum eligible quantities (MEQ) of all the eligible Local Users is more than 80,000 MT, 
then the ash allocation to local users shall be in following manner: 
Example:  
A,B,C,D and E are local users  
X and Y are MSEs engaged in ash-based product manufacturing 
4.1 Methodology for Pro-Rata Allocation for 80,000MT among local users 
Step-1: Initial Distribution among local users 
L= Total Reserved Quantity/ Number of Eligible Local Users 
Where: 
L = Tentative allocation per bidder  
• Total Reserved Quantity = 80,000 MT  
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
7  
• Number of Eligible Local Users = N  
Therefore: 
L = 80,000/N 
The quantity allocation shall be carried out among all Local User s on pro-rata basis limiting to Maximum 
Eligible Quantity (MEQ) of each bidders.   
Any balance quantity remaining after the above step-1 sh all be considered for the next step of allocation 
among the eligible local users whose eligible requirement is still unmet. 
Step-2: Distribution for remaining quantity to eligible Local Users whose eligible requirement is still 
unmet - 
Any balance quantity remaining after Step-1 shall be redistributed proportionately among the remaining 
eligible Local users whose eligible requirement is still unmet. 
This process shall continue iteratively until: 
• the entire reserved quantity is allocated, or  
• all eligible requirements are fully met.  
Dry Fly Ash shall be allocated to eligible Local users at the concessional rate mentioned in the bid document, 
till the available reserved quantity (80,000 MT) for local users is exhausted.  
Collection of ash from APCPL Silo a nd transportation thereafter shall be entirely in the scope of the 
Applicant. Dry Fly Ash shall be issued from APCPL Silo(s) as decided by the Engineer In-Charge (EIC), on 
“as is where is” basis. 
Illustrative Example 
Assume: 
• Total Reserved Quantity = 80,000 MT  
• Total Eligible Bidders = 5  
Then, 
M=80,000/5 =16,000 MT  
Bidder MEQ (MT) Initial Allocation (MT) Allocation after Step-1 (MT) 
A 12000 16,000 12,000 
B 25000 16,000 16,000 
C 27000 16,000 16,000 
D 22000 16,000 16,000 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
8  
E 17000 16,000 16,000 
In the above case: 
• Bidder A can receive only 12,000 MT.  
Hence, surplus quantity remaining: 
(16,000− 12,000) = 4,000 MT  
The balance quantity of 4,000 MT sha ll be redistributed proportionately  among remaining eligible bidders 
B,C,D and E, subject to their remaining eligible requirement. 
Bidder MEQ (MT) Allocation after Step -1 (MT) Final Allocation for 80,000MT 
A 12000 12,000 12,000 
B 25000 16,000 17,000 
C 27000 16,000 17,000 
D 22000 16,000 17,000 
E 17000 16,000 17,000 
4.2 Methodology for Pro-Rata Allocation for MSEs engaged in ash-based product 
manufacturing and local users for 3,00,000MT plus any unallocated quantity from 
reserved quantity (80,000MT) for local users.  
Step-1: Initial Distribution among all the eligible bidders (eligible MSEs engaged in ash-based product 
manufacturing and local users)  
M= Total Reserved Quantity/ Number of all the Eligible Bidders 
Where: 
M = Tentative allocation per bidder  
• Total Reserved Quantity = 3,00,000 MT  
• Number of all the Eligible Bidders = N  
Therefore: 
M = 3,00,000/N 
The quantity allocation shall be carri ed out among all the elig ible bidders on pro-rata basis limiting to 
Maximum Eligible Quantity (MEQ) of each bidders.   
Any balance quantity remaining after the above step-1 sh all be considered for the next step of allocation 
among the all the eligible bidders whose eligible requirement is still unmet. 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
9  
Step-2: Distribution for remaining quantity to all the eligible bidders whose eligible requirement is 
still unmet - 
Any balance quantity remaining after Step-1 shall be redistributed proportionately among the remaining 
eligible bidders whose eligible requirement is still unmet. 
This process shall continue iteratively until: 
• the entire reserved quantity is allocated, or  
• all eligible requirements are fully met.  
Dry Fly Ash shall be allocated to all the eligible bi dders at the concessional rate mentioned in the bid 
document, till the available reserved quantity (3,00,000 MT) is exhausted .  
Illustrative Example 
Assume: 
• Total Reserved Quantity = 3,00,000 MT  
• Total Eligible Bidders = 5  
Then, 
M=3,00,000 /5 =60,000 MT  
Bidder MEQ (MT) Initial Allocation (MT) Allocation after Step-1 (MT) 
B (Local Users) 25000 17,000+60,000  17,000+8,000 =25,000 
C (Local Users) 27000 17,000+60,000  17,000+10,000 = 27,000 
D (Local Users) 22000 17,000+60,000  17,000+5,000 = 22,000 
X  2,20,000 60,000  60,000 
Y 200000 60,000  60,000 
In the above case: 
• Bidder B, C and D can receive only up to MEQ.  
Hence, surplus quantity remaining: 
(60,000−8,000) + (60,000−10,000) + (60,000−5,000) = 52,000+50,000+55,000 = 1,57,000 MT  
The balance quantity of 1,57,000 MT shall be redistributed proportionately among remaining eligible bidders 
X and Y subject to their remaining eligible requirement.  
Bidder MEQ (MT) Allocation after Step -1 (MT) Final Allocation for 3,00,000MT 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
10  
B 
(Local 
Users) 
25000 25000 25000 
C 
(Local 
Users) 
27000 27000 27000 
D 
(Local 
Users) 
22000 22000 22000 
X  2,20,000 60,000  60,000+78,500 = 1,38,500 
Y 2,00,000 60,000  60,000+78,500 = 1,38,500 
Dry Fly Ash shall be allocated to eligible bidders at the concessional rate mentioned in the bid document, till 
the available reserved quantity (3,00,000 MT) is exhausted.  
Collection of ash from APCPL Silo a nd transportation thereafter shall be entirely in the scope of the 
Applicant. Dry Fly Ash shall be issued from APCPL Silo(s) as decided by the Engineer In-Charge (EIC), on 
“as is where is” basis. 
5. Affidavit for Utilization of Ash:  
Affidavit for Utilization of Ash: The buyer shall s ubmit affidavit on non – judicial stamp paper of 
requisite value, certifying the complete use of issued APCPL fly ash certifying the adherence to 
provisions identified vide extant MoEF&CC Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. 
This affidavit, in prescribed format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the APCPL Engineer-
In-Charge (format attached as Annexure – D). 
6.  
a. Bid Security / EMD (INR) 
 
i) EMD/Bid Security of amount   Rs.  15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand only) must be 
submitted through Wire Transfer (NEFT/RTGS/EFT) only. EMD shall be deposited from 
the account of respective bidder.  
ii) Bidders shall have to upload scanned copy of relevant valid documents in place of Bid Security 
document for Bid Security on etenders portal. Copy of Bid Security Deposit shall be submitted 
by the bidder in the Fee cover at GePNIC portal.  
iii) Bid security of unsuccessful bidders shall be returned as promptly as possible, but not later than 
60 days after the expiration of the bid validity period.  
iv) Bid Security of successful Bidder(s) shall be  returned / adjusted by APCPL only after 
submission of requisite amount of Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit. 
v)  The Bid Security may be forfei ted if the bidder / his represen tative commits any fraud while 
competing for this contract pursuant to Fraud Prevention Policy of APCPL. 
vi)  Withdrawal of bids may result in the forfeiture of the Bidder’s bid security.  
vii) Non-Submission of CPG / SD within stipulated time may result in the forfeiture of the Bidder’s 
bid security. 
 
Details for remittance of EMD by Indian Bidder (NEFT/RTGS): 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
11  
APCPL Bank whose details are as under. 
Account Name:                      ARAVALI POWER COMPANY PVT LTD 
Debit Account No:                6516002100000621 
Bank:                                           PNB BANK 
Branch:                                     NTPC JHARLI 
ISFC Code :                            PUNB0651600 
b. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) 
i. Within Fifteen (15) days of the issue of award letter for allocation by the Owner, successful Bidders 
shall submit the Contract Performance Guarantee / Security Deposit for an amount equivalent to Ten 
(10) percent of value of annual allocated quantity in the form of  RTGS / Crossed Demand Draft in 
favour of APCPL payable at Bahadurgarh or Jharli [in APCPL Account] or through an unconditional 
and irrevocable Bank Guarantee (as per Format at Annexure E) and verified  as per checklist at 
Annexure F. CPG / SD submitted in the form of Bank Guarantee shall be valid for 90 days in addition 
to period of contract. List of Banks is available in Annexure I of Bid Document. 
ii. Failure of the successful Bidder to comply w ith the requirement of S ubmission of Contract 
Performance Guarantee / Security Deposit within th e prescribed time shall constitute sufficient 
grounds for the annulment of the al location order and forfeiture of the Bid Security (EMD). In that 
event no damages or compensations shall be payable to the buyer. 
iii. For commencement of supplies, submission of acceptable CPG / SD is a precondition. 
iv. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Securi ty Deposit (SD) shall be released within 90  
(Ninety) days after successful completion of contract in all respects. 
 
7. Compensation against shortfall during regular off take: 
  
a. After commencement of first off take, buyer will be required to lift fly ash on regular basis in 
accordance with agreed quantity as per contracted schedule. The buyer shall have to lift the minimum 
90% of annual contracted quantity / adjusted quanti ty (in case of short suppl y) on prorata basis. In 
case buyer fails to lift the minimu m quantity (90% of annual cont racted quantity/annual adjusted 
quantity) on prorata basis, compensation amount @ 20% of the awarded / prevailing price (rounded 
to the nearest whole number on the higher side) will be charged on the shortfall quantity (90% of 
annual contracted / annual adjusted quantity on prorata basis minus (-) Actual quantity lifted, for the 
period under review), provided shortfall is because of the reasons attributable to bidder.  
 
b. Compensation shall be calculated cumulatively a nd progressively for all quarters. One quarter 
constitutes three consecutive months. Compensation due on a buyer for each quarter, if not deposited 
separately within a month of intimation, the same will be deducted from the advance available. Again, 
if sufficient advance is not available, the supply of ash may be stopped and any resulting shortfall in 
ash supply due to this will be attributed to the buyer. The compensation shall be deducted/recovered 
from the CPG/SD of the buyer at the completion of the contract period.  
 
c. Gross compensation amount for any financial year will be limited to the CPG amount. 
 
d. The following illustration of Table-1 has been considered for cal culating Quarterly compensation 
during a financial year. 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
12  
i. Consecutive three-monthly quantity shall be considered from the scheduled date of start till 
completion of three months for each quarter and subsequently so on till expiry of contract. 
ii. Ash made available in any month is taken for illustration purposes only in Table-1. For 
calculation of actual compensation, the Quantity of ash made available for the whole month 
shall be taken. 
iii. Compensation for each quarter shall be calculated cumulative from date of start of lifting of 
ash. The compensation for each qua rter shall be calculated and levied.  The penalty to be 
levied in any quarter shall be  the difference between the pena lty calculated on cumulative 
basis and penalty already levied in previous qu arters of the same financial year. However, 
Compensation once levied for a quarter shall not be returned to bidders.   
iv. However, weightage in calculation of compensation in subsequent quarters shall be given to 
bidder as Compensation in second / third/ Fourth quarter shall be calculated considering total 
ash lifted from the date of start of the ash lifting. 
v. In case, compensation for any quarter is coming negative, i.e. actual ash lifting is more than 
the minimum 90% of annual contracted quantity / adjusted quantity on prorata basis, it will 
be considered as zero compensation for that qua rter and if compensati on for any quarter is 
coming positive i.e. actual ash lifting is less than the minimum 90% of contracted quantity / 
adjusted quantity on prorata basis, compensation shall be levied.  
vi. For commencement of supplies, submission of CPG is a precondition.  
vii. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) shall be  released within 90 (Ninety) days after 
successful completion of contract in all respects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
13  
Table-1 
 
 Ash allocated per month as per LOA on 
Prorota basis 
100 units 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation 
calculation 
for Quarter-1 
(Q1) of the 
Contract 
period 
Ash Allotted (pro-rata) in First, Second 
and Third months (QUARTER-1) as per 
LOA quantity  
100 units x 3 months = 300 units 
Ash made available for sale by APCPL 
(1st month) 
70 units 
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(2nd month) 
120 units (Maximum 100 units 
shall be considered) 
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(3rd month) 
95 units 
Consideration for cumulative adjusted 
allocated quantity “C1” (First, Second and 
Third months i.e., QUARTER-1) 
C1= 265 units (to be considered 
for adjustment in contracted 
quantity against 300 allotted for 3 
months of QUARTER-1 in LOA) 
Quantity to be considered as short fall in 
lifting for QUARTER-1, “R1” = [90% of 
(C1) – (A1)] 
where “A1” is the actual lifting units in 
three months of QUARTER-1 
R1= [(265x90/100) – (A1)] 
Compensation in QUARTER-1, “P1” P1= R1 x 20% of prevailing 
Rate 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation 
calculation 
for Quarter-2 
Ash Allotted (pro-rata) in Fourth, Fifth and 
Sixth months (QUARTER-2) as per LOA 
quantity 
100 units x 3 months = 300 units 
Ash made available for sale by APCPL 
(Fourth month) 
80 units 
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(Fifth month) 
110 units (Maximum 100 units 
shall be considered) 
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(Sixth month) 
95 units 
Consideration for cumulative adjusted C2= 275 units (to be considered 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
14  
(Q2) of the 
Contract 
period 
allocated quantity “C2” (Fourth, Fifth and 
Sixth months i.e., QUARTER-2) 
for adjustment in contracted 
quantity against 300 allotted for 3 
months of QUARTER-2 in LOA) 
Quantity to be considered as short fall in 
lifting upto QUARTER-2, “R2” = [90% of 
(C1+C2) – (A1+A2)] 
where “A2” is the actual lifting units in 
three months of QUARTER-2 
R2= [(265+275) (90/100) – 
(A1+A2)] 
Compensation in QUARTER-2, “P2” P2= [(R2 x 20% of prevailing 
Rate)-P1] 
Compensation 
calculation 
for Quarter-3 
(Q3) of the 
Contract 
period 
Ash Allotted (pro-rata) in Seventh, Eighth 
and Ninth months (QUARTER-3) as per 
LOA quantity 
100 units x 3 months = 300 units 
Ash made available for sale by APCPL 
(Seventh month) 
90 units 
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(Eighth month) 
100 units  
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(Ninth month) 
95 units 
Consideration for cumulative adjusted 
allocated quantity “C3” (Seventh, Eighth 
and Ninth months i.e., QUARTER-3) 
C3= 285 units (to be considered 
for adjustment in contracted 
quantity against 300 allotted for 3 
months of QUARTER-3 in LOA) 
Quantity to be considered as short fall in 
lifting upto QUARTER-3, “R3” = [90% of 
(C1+C2+C3) – (A1+A2+A3)] 
where “A3” is the actual lifting units in 
three months of QUARTER-3 
R3= [(265+275+285) (90/100) – 
(A1+A2+A3)] 
Compensation in QUARTER-3, “P3” P3= [(R3 x 20% of prevailing 
Rate) -(P1+P2)] 
 
 
 
Ash Allotted (pro-rata) in Tenth, Eleventh 
and Twelfth months (QUARTER-4) as per 
LOA quantity 
100 units x 3 months = 300 units 
Ash made available for sale by APCPL 100 units 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
15  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a situation, the value of P1 / P2 / P3 / P4 comes out to negative, it will be considered as zero for the purpose 
of levy of compensation. 
Maximum mobilisation period for the execution of contract shall be Fifteen days (15) days from the date of 
LOA. But the compensation shall be calculated from th e actual date of lifting during balance period of 
contract and per day lifting requirement shall be calculated by dividing total allocated quantity from balance 
numbers of days. Date of lifting should not be more than Fifteen days i.e. mobilisation period.  
 
Bank Details of APCPL : Performance Security and EMD shall be furnished through NEFT/RTGS in the 
following account: 
 
APCPL Bank whose details are as under. 
Account Name:                      ARAVALI POWER COMPANY PVT LTD 
Debit Account No:                6516002100000621 
Bank:                                           PNB BANK 
Branch:                                     NTPC JHARLI 
ISFC Code :                            PUNB0651600 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation 
calculation 
for Quarter-4 
(Q4) of the 
Contract 
period 
(Tenth month) 
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(Eleventh month) 
100 units  
Ash Made available for sale by APCPL 
(Twelfth month) 
130 units (Maximum 100 units 
shall be considered) 
Consideration for cumulative adjusted 
allocated quantity “C4” (Tenth, Eleventh 
and Twelfth months i.e., QUARTER-4) 
C4= 300 units (to be considered 
for adjustment in contracted 
quantity against 300 allotted for 3 
months of QUARTER-4 in LOA) 
Quantity to be considered as short fall in 
lifting upto QUARTER-4, “R4” = [90% of 
(C1+C2+C3+C4) – (A1+A2+A3+A4)] 
where “A4” is the actual lifting units in 
three months of QUARTER-4 
R4= [(265+275+285+300) 
(90/100) – (A1+A2+A3+A4)] 
Compensation in QUARTER-4, “P4” P4= [(R4 x 20% of prevailing 
Rate) -(P1+P2+P3)] 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
16  
Section II 
Guidelines for submission of Bid/Offer 
 
1) The interested MSEs / Local Users shall submit their application along with all supporting documents 
in electronic form (soft copy) only. EOI received through any other mode (hard copy / by hand / post) 
shall not be considered. 
2) Any revision or amendment in EOI shall be possible only up to the due date and time of submission of 
offer. 
3) Any clarification / corrigendum / amendment in the EOI shall be uploaded on the e-procurement portal 
only. Applicants are advised to regularly visit the website for updates. 
4) The applicant shall submit the documents as follows: 
EMD along with all documents shall be scanned clearly and submitted in PDF format only. 
5) Documents to be submitted as part of EOI: as mentioned in General Information 
 
Note: All documents submitted shall be clear, complete  and legible. The applicant shall be solely 
responsible for the correctness and authenticity of the information furnished. Applications found 
incomplete, illegible or submitted with false/misleading documents shal l be liable for rejection without 
further communication. APCPL reserves the right to verify the documen ts and physically inspect the unit 
before issuance of allocation order and may cancel the allocation at any stage if any discrepancy is found. 
 
Note: 
1. EOI document is to be downloaded from the APCPL tender website https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app.   
2. Bidders are requested to vis it from the APCPL tender website 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app. regularly for any addendum / corrigendum / Extension till 
opening. Any such changes shall not be published through Press advt. 
 
Contact : Shri Amit Saikia , DGM (C&M),  
APCPL / Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Project, 
Jharli, Distt Jhajjar (Haryana) -  124141 
Tel: 01251-  266334 Mob. No.: 9435720449 email: amitsaikia@ntpc.co.in 
 
Shri Shivam Dwivedi, Sr. Manager (AUD) 
APCPL / Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Project, 
Jharli, Distt Jhajjar (Haryana) -  124141 
Tel: 01251-  266450 Mob. No.: 9471006954 email: shivamdwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 Instructions for Online Bid Submission is attached.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
17  
 
Section III 
A:Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines 
1. This Expression of Interest (EOI) is issued for al location of reserved Fly Ash to eligible MSEs / 
Local Users as per Ministry of Power Guid elines dated 30.01.2026 and MoEF&CC Notification 
dated 01.01.2024. This EOI is only for registration and allocation of fly ash and shall not constitute 
a binding commercial contract. The supply shall be governed by the Fly Ash Supply Agreement to 
be executed after allocation. 
2. Fly Ash shall be issued on “as is where is” from designated ash silos / loading points of APCPL 
Ash silos area. 
3. Allocation shall be made on pro-rata basis among eligible appl icants in a fair and transparent 
manner. 
4. Buyer shall be liable and responsible for payment towards any taxes, GST, duties, etc. applicable 
by state/ central government from time to time during the tenure of lifting/ collection of Fly Ash. 
5. Buyer shall follow all statutory rules and procedures regarding lifting & transportation of Fly Ash. 
Buyer shall have valid license issued by statutory bodies, State Govt. / Central Govt. Authority for 
transportation of fly ash. 
6. Buyer will take all possible meas ures and ensure pollu tion free loading and tr ansportation of fly 
ash complying with all the environment norms, as per guidelines laid down by MOEF & CC and 
the prevailing provisions of statutory bodies / Govt. Agencies. 
7. Buyer shall have to keep the loading / lifting area clean. 
8. Buyer shall be responsible for meeting all applicable statutory requirements under various acts viz. 
relating to risk and liability of your workforce,  applicable taxes & duties, necessary licenses, 
clearances, etc. APCPL shall, in  no way, be responsible for any accident, injury or whatsoever, 
caused to buyer engaged manpower. In  case of such eventualities, the Applicant shall be solely 
responsible for compensation or whatsoever as per statutory laws, etc. The Applicant shall have to 
comply with provisions of labor Laws, Bonus Acts, etc., as applicable in the matter of engagement 
of labor. 
9. The Applicant shall be solely responsible for any non-compliance / work injury / accidents related 
to executed work arising out of and in connecti on with lifting and tran sportation of Fly Ash. 
APCPL  shall not be held responsible in any way. 
10. The applicant shall arrange lifting and transportation of Fly Ash at its own cost and responsibility.  
11. Transportation shall be carried out only through covered bulkers / covered vehicles complying with 
environmental norms. Open transportation shall not be permitted. 
12. The applicant shall comply with all statutory regulations including e nvironmental, pollution 
control, transport and labor laws. 
13. The applicant shall be responsible for safety of its manpower, vehicles  and equipment. APCPL 
shall not be liable for any accident or injury. 
14. Necessary entry passes for vehicles and personnel shall be obtained from plant authorities. 
15. The allocation shall normally remain valid fo r Three years or as decided by APCPL as per 
prevailing Government guidelines. 
16. Quantity lifted shall be determined based on actual weighment at APCPL weighbridge and shall be 
final and binding. 
17. Weighment of lifted Fly Ash shall be done at APCPL  plant. 
18. The applicant shall ensure no spillage, leakage or nuisance during transportation. 
19. Fly Ash shall be utilized only for declared eco-friendly purpose / ash-based product manufacturing. 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
18  
20. Trading, resale or diversion of Fly Ash is strictly prohibited. 
21. APCPL reserves the right to inspect manufacturing facility to verify utilization any time within the 
contract period, in case found not suitable, APCPL reserve right to cancel the allocation. 
22. Applicant shall submit utilization self-declaration / affidavit periodically as required. 
23. Submission of false information shall lead to cancellation of allocation and debarment. 
24. Non-lifting for prolonged period may result in reduction or withdrawal of allocation. 
25. Applicant shall familiarize itself with site conditions before participation. 
26. Lifting of dry fly ash shall not interfere with plant functioning or damage property. 
27. APCPL reserves the right to regulate lifting schedule depending upon availability of ash. 
28. In case reserved quantity remains unutilized, APCPL may reallocate the quantity as per discretion 
of EIC. 
29. Applicant shall maintain valid statutory registrations during allocation period. 
30. Local Users shall be within 100 km radius of plant and shall submit self-declaration for eco-friendly 
use. 
31. MSE applicants shall submit valid Udyam certifi cate or CTO issued by CPCB/SPCB wherever 
applicable. 
32. Applicant shall cooperate during verification by statutory authorities. 
33. APCPL may seek additional documents for verification of genuineness of manufacturing activity. 
34. Allocation may be cancelled any time if bidder’s facility found non-operational or non-functional. 
35. Applicant shall maintain records of ash consumption and shall produced on demand. 
36. APCPL reserves the right to revise allocated quantity based on actual generation of ash. 
37. Lifting shall be done only during permitted hours as decided by Engineer-in-Charge. 
38. All safety rules of APCPL shall be strictly followed inside plant premises. 
39. Any damage caused to plant property shall be recoverable from applicant. 
40. APCPL  shall not be responsible for delay due to law & order issues, court orders, government 
directives or natural calamities. 
41. The applicant shall bear all taxes, duties and statutory levies applicable, if any. 
42. Allocation under EOI does not create any ownership right over Fly Ash until actual lifting.  
43. APCPL reserves the right to amend terms of EOI in line with Government policy. 
44. APCPL  reserves the right to terminate allocation without compensation in case of violation of EOI 
terms. 
45. Any dispute arising out of this EOI shall be subj ect to jurisdiction. The Di strict court Jhajjar/ 
Haryana high court shall have exclusive jurisdiction on any of the terms touching upon any subject 
matter.  
46. Final interpretation of this EOI shall rest with APCPL. 
47. The lifting permission shall be va lid for a period of one year against issued /allocated annual 
quantity as per LOI/LOA. The Ap plicant shall lift th e entire annua l allocated quantity under the 
Lifting Permission within one year. However, issuance of Fly Ash is subject to its availability. 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
19  
48. Buyer shall deposit advance payment before li fting. Lifting shall be permitted only against 
available advance balance. 
49. For ensuring continuous and uninte rrupted lifting of Fly Ash, the B uyer shall maintain sufficient 
advance balance at all times. In  case the advance balance falls be low the required level, further 
lifting shall not be permitted until the advance amount is replenished. 
50. The Applicant shall undertake loading and tran sportation in a nuisance free environment and 
in an ecofriendly manner. 
51. The Applicant shall be responsible for supervision of the fly ash lifting activities. 
52. The Applicant shall be responsible for safeguar ding its deployed equipment and all associated 
risks. 
53. Successful MSE bidders have to submit their elect ricity bills / DG Set energy meter reading and 
GST submissions details on a quarter ly basis to the EIC of APCPL so as to ascertain the genuine 
ash utilization in manufacturing of ash ash-based product namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or 
cold bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels.” APCPL reserve the right 
to stop issuance of fly ash on account of non-submission of  electricity bills / DG Set energy meter 
reading and GST submissions detail s. However local users shall submit the utilization certificate 
of ash for use of issued ash under eco-friendly avenues as per extant MoEF&CC Notification.  
54. ADHERENCE TO FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY 
The Buyer along with its associate / collaborators / subagencies / sub-vendors / consultants / service 
providers shall strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention Policy of Owner displayed on its website 
http://www.APCPL.com / https://vendor.APCPL.c o.in. The Buyer shall immediately apprise the 
Owner about any fraud or suspected fraud as soon as it comes to their notice. 
A certificate to this effect sh all be furnished by the bidder along with his bid by accepting the 
condition “Acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC/APCPL”. 
If in terms of above policy, it is established that the bidder / his representatives have committed any 
fraud while competing for this contr act then the Owner shall be entitl ed to disqualify the Buyer(s) 
from the bidding process and forfe it the Earnest Money Deposit. In addition to the above, if the 
Bidder has committed a fraud such as to put his reli ability or credibility into question, the Owner 
shall be entitled to exclude including blacklist and put the Bidder on holiday for any future tenders 
/ contracts award process. 
A certificate to this effect as per Annexure - K shall be furnished by the bidder along with his bid. 
Submission of a bid by a bidder at etenders Portal deems the acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy 
of APCPL. 
55. DECLARATION ON NTPC/APCPL DEBARMENT FROM BUSINESS DEALINGS POLICY  
The Owner has in place a policy for withholding and banning of business Dealings as displayed on 
its website https://vendor.ntpc.co.in/ http://apcpl .co.in/. Business dealings  may be withheld or 
banned with the Buyer on account of any default by the Buyer or any of the grounds detailed in the 
said NTPC/APCPL Debarment from Business Dealings Policy.  
Submission of a bid by a bidde r at etenders Portal deems th e acceptance to Withholding and 
Banning of Business Dealing Policy of NTPC/APCPL. 
56. Other conditions of the Contract as given at section-V.  
 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
20  
Section IV 
Format & Annexure 
 
 
 
S.No Format & 
ANNEXURES   
Description  
1 Annexure- A Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
 
2 Annexure- B 
 
Certificate of Compliance  
 
3 Annexure-C 
 
UNDERTAKING 
 
4 Annexure H No Deviation Certificate 
5 Annexure J Acceptance of fraud prevention policy of APCPL 
6 Annexure K Integrity Pact /Compliance on policy of debarment from business 
dealings of APCPL 
7 Annexure E Proforma of BANK GUARANTEE FOR 
“CONTRACT PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE 
(CPG) / SECURITY DEPOSIT (SD)” 
 
8 Annexure F BANK GUARANTEE VERIFICATION CHECK LIST 
 
9 Annexure I List of the Banks 
10 Annexure G INDEMNITY BOND  
 
11 Annexure D 
 
AFFIDAVIT 
( to be submitted on half yearly basis) 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
21  
Annexure-A    
Paga ½ 
Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
Issue of Dry Fly ash with Transportation by Bidder, from APCPL 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
 
2. 
Status (Company / Individual / Partnership firm)  
2.1 Udyam Registration Certificate / MSE Certificate  
2.2 Document establishing that the bidder is a 
manufacturer 
of ash-based product. 
 
2.3 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.4 PAN No.  
2.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of the Product   
Production Capacity per Annum  
Fly Ash Requirement per annum (12 Month 
Period) 
for the ash-based product (s) manufacturing 
(MT) 
 
Actual Production previous Financial Year  
Location and Address of Production  
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling dry fly ash in an 
environment friendly way as per extant 
regulation/law (Yes/No) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
22  
Sl. No. Description Details 
4 Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
 
 
 
6 
 
 
Dry FlyAsh quantity sought 
against EoI (both in Figures and 
Words): (MT) 
 
Figures: 
 
Words: 
 
 
 
8 
Address of the location where Bidder proposes to 
transport Dry Fly ash if issued. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF & CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder proposes 
to utilize ash, if issued. 
SN Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
11 Any other relevant information  
       (Duly attested copies of PAN card indicating PAN Card number and GST registration number 
(with up to amendment) are     
     to be enclosed.) 
For and on behalf of   
 
Date: 
Place: Signature: 
(Authorized Representative) Name: 
Designation: 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
23  
Annexure-B 
Page 1 of 1 
Certificate of Compliance  
 
Bid Ref No. and Date :  
 
Bidder's Name and Address: 
To, 
Aravali Power Company Private Limited (APCPL) 
Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Station 
Vill. Jharli, Tehsil Matanhail, 
Distt Jhajjar – 124141 
Haryana 
 
Sub: INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF Interest (EOI) For Allocation of Dry fly Ash to 
MSEs/Local Users From APCPL 
 
With Reference to our EOI....................dated................. ....for the subject package , whereby confirm 
our compliance to the following  attributes: 
 
1) Total Compliance to all provisions of EOI Documents/ Nil Deviation 
2) This is to certify I/we are fly Ash bases product MSE manufacturer/Local manufacturer. 
3) I have completed 18 years as on bid submission end date (In case Individual applicant) 
4) Compliance on Qualifying Requirement in all respect. 
5) Compliance on Restriction on Procurement from a Bidder of a country which shares a land 
Border with India 
 
6) Compliance on Fraud Prevention Policy 
7) Compliance on Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings 
8) Compliance to “Conflict of Interest” provisions. 
9) Compliance on “Integrity Pact" of Employer 
Date:  
 
Signature) .................................................. . 
(Printed Name) ............................................  
Place:  
 
(Designation) ...............................................  
                                                  (Seal) ............................................ 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
24 
 
Annexure-C
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
UNDERTAKING 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) (To 
be notarized before a notary public) 
I / We (Name of the firm/ 
Individual) hereby certify that  I/we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained in all 
corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offe r is in conformity w ith all the terms and 
conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/a ddendum, if any. In the event of allocation of 
ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered as part and parcel of the LOA for 
constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and required by APCPL. 
That I am / We are micro and small enterprise, engaged in Ash Based product manufacturing of 
________________________ (bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, fibre 
cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels) as per para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on 
ash utilisation from coal or lignite th ermal power plants Dated 31.12.2021 amended on 
01.01.2024. 
We understand that, in case, above document sub mitted by us are not found to be in order by 
APCPL/ the owner at any stage of bid evaluation, then our bid shall not be considered for 
evaluation and be rejected. 
I / We, hereby undertake, utilization / ensure ut ilization of the fly ash, issued by APCPL, for 
following Ash Utilization Avenues only, as identified in extant MoEF&CC Notification. 
Manufacturing of Fly Ash based products viz. bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold 
bonded as aggregates, fibre    cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as per para D(4) 
inserted to the MOEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal 
power plants Dated 31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither bl acklisted / barred by Government / Semi – 
Government/ Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have been 
convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In-Charge) with regard to procedures 
for collection of the Dry Fly ash including, Discipline to be maintained, Mobilization of adequate 
number of bulkers / covered tr ucks / suitable transportati on arrangement conducive to 
environment friendly handling a nd transport etc. I/We agree to  carry out the above as per 
instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding safety, 
environment, sustainability, road  transport etc. I/We shall fulfill all applicable statutory 
requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the contract. 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
25 
 
I/We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area as directed 
by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting and utilization 
of Dry Fly ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemn ity bond indemnifying APCPL fro m any liabilit y, whatsoever, 
which may arise due to viola tion / Non – compliance of any applicable norms / rules / 
regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and for future obligations (if any) 
by way of omission or commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the Dry Fly ash issued by APCPL for only Ash Utilization 
Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC’s Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half 
Yearly basis, an affidavit on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes/ Avenues as 
identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true and authentic 
to the best of my/our knowledge  and I / we understand and accep t that if at any stage, the 
information furnished is found to be incorrect or fals e, I am/we are liable  for disqualification 
from this EoI and also liable for any other penal action that may arise due to the above. 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
Date ………/…….../………. Name 
…………………………………………… 
Place: …………………….....  Designation: 
………………………………
…. Name of the Company: 
…….…….………. Address: 
…………………………….…
………. Company Seal: 
….……………………………
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
26 
 
 
Annexure-H 
Page 1 of 1 
 
(No Deviation Certificate) 
EOI Ref. No:  
 
 
DATED: 
Bidder's Name and Address: 
  
To 
Aravali Power Company Private Limited (APCPL) 
Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Station 
Vill. Jharli, Tehsil Matanhail, 
Distt Jhajjar – 124141 
Haryana 
   
Dear Sirs, 
 
 
1.0 With reference to our EOI Proposal No ................................... dated .................. for [Insert Name 
of the Package “INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF Interest (EOI) For Allocation of Dry 
fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users From APCPL. ”, we hereby confirm that we comply with all terms, 
conditions and specifications of the EOI Documents read in Conjunction with 
Amendment(s)/Clarification(s)/ Addenda/Errata (if any) issued by the Employer prior to opening 
of EOI  and the same has been taken into consideration while making our EOI and we declare that 
we have not taken any deviation in this regard.  
2.0  We further confirm that any de viation, variation or additional  condition etc. or any mention, 
contrary to Bidding Documents an d its Amendment(s)/ Clarification(s)/ Addenda/ Errata (if any) 
as mentioned at 1.0 above found anywhere in EOI, implicit or explicit, shall stand unconditionally 
withdrawn, without any cost implication whatsoever  to Employer, failing which the bid security 
shall be forfeited. 
 
Date: Signature ................................................. 
 
Place: Printed Name .......................................... 
 
 (Designation) ............................................ 
 
 (Seal of the firm) ....................................... 
 
 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
27 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-J 
Page 1 of 1 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
 
(FORM OF ACCEPTANCE OF FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY) 
 
SALE OF FLY ASH FROM APCPL – Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Station 
 
To, 
Aravali Power Company Private Limited 
Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Station 
Vill. Jharli, Tehsil Matanhail, 
Distt Jhajjar – 124141 
Haryana  
Dear Sir, 
We have read the contents of the Fraud Preven tion Policy of APCPL displayed on tender website 
http://www.apcpl.co.in and undertake that we along with our associate / collaborator / subcontractors / sub 
vendors / consultants / service provide rs shall strictly abid e by the provisions of  the Fraud Prevention 
Policy of APCPL. 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Date :                                                                                     (Signature).......................................... 
 
Place :                                                                                   (Name)................................................ 
(Designation)...................................... 
                                                                                 (Common Seal) ................................. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
28 
 
Annexure-K 
 .........................................................................  PACKAGE FOR 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. .............................................................................  
INTEGRITY PACT  
Between  
Aravali Power Company Pvt. Ltd., (APCPL) (hereinafter referred to as "The Employer ") 
and  
 ...........................................................................................................  (hereinafter referred 
to as "The Bidder/Contractor ")  
and 
…………………………………………………………………………..(hereinafter referred to 
as "JV Partner/ Consortium Members" (if applicable) 
Preamble 
The Employer invites the bids from all eligible bidders and intends to enter into Contract for   with 
the successful bidder(s), as pe r organizational systems and procedures. The Employer values full 
compliance with all relevant laws and regulati ons, and the principles of economical use of 
resources, and of fairness and transparency in its relations with its Bidder(s) and/or Contractor(s). 
In order to achieve these goals, the Employer will appoint Independent External Monitor(s) (IEM), 
who will monitor the bidding proce ss and the execution of the Cont ract for compliance with the 
principles mentioned above. 
Section 1      Commitments of the Employer  
 1. The Employer Commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and 
to observe the following principles in this regard:- 
a) No employee of the Employer, either in person or through family members including 
relatives, will in connection with the bi dding for or the execution of a Contract, 
demand or accept a promise for or accept fo r him/herself or for a third person, any 
material or immaterial benefit to which he/she is not legally entitled to. 
b) The Employer shall, during the bidding pr ocess treat all Bidders with equity and 
reason. The Employer will, in particular, before and during the bidding process, 
provide to all Bidders the same inform ation and will not provide to any Bidder 
confidential/additional info rmation through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an 
advantage in relation to the bidding process or the Contract execution. 
c) The Employer will exclude from the process all known prejudiced persons. 
 2. If the Employer obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a 
criminal offence under the IPC/PC Act or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
29 
 
the Employer will inform the Chief Vigila nce Officer and in addition can initiate 
disciplinary actions. 
 Section 2 Commitments and Undert akings by the Bidder/Contractor 
 1. The Bidder/Contractor commits and undertak es to take all measures necessary to 
prevent malpractices & corruption. He commits himself to observe the following principles 
during his participation in the bidding process and during the execution of the contract: 
a) The Bidder/ Contractor undertakes not to, directly or through any other person or 
firm offer, promise or give or influence to a ny employee of the Employer 
associated with the bidding process or the execution of the contract or to any third 
person on their behalf any material or immaterial benefit which he/she is not legally 
entitled, in order to obtain in exchange any advantag e of any kind whatsoever 
during the bidding process or during the execution of the contract. 
b) The Bidder/ Contractor undertake not to enter into any undisclosed agreement or 
understanding, whether formal or informal with other Bidders. This applies in 
particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission 
or non-submission of bids or any other act ion to restrict competitiveness or to 
introduce cartelization in the bidding process. 
c) The Bidder/Contractor undert akes not to commit any offence under the relevant 
Anti-corruption Laws of India; furthe r the Bidder/Contract or will not use 
improperly, any information or document provided by the Employer as part of the 
business relationship, regarding plans, t echnical proposals and business details, 
including information contained or transmitted electronically for purposes of 
competition or personal gain and will not  pass the informatio n so acquired on to 
others. 
d) The Bidder/ Contractor, when presenting his bid, undertakes to disclose any and 
all payments made, or is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any 
other intermediaries in connection with th e bidding process and / or award of the 
contract. 
e) The Foreign Bidder/ Contractor, when pres enting his bid, undertakes to disclose 
the name and address of agents and representative in India. Further, Indian Bidder/ 
Contractor when presenting his bid, undert akes to disclose th e name and address 
of its foreign principals or associates. 
2.         The Bidder/ Contractor will not instigate and allure third persons/parties to commit 
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such offences. 
 Section 3 Disqualification from  Bidding Process and Exclusion from Future Contracts 
1. If the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s), before award or during execution has committed a 
transgression through a violation of any provisions of Section 2 so as to put his reliability 
or credibility as Bidder into question, the Em ployer shall be entitled to disqualify the 
ATTACHMENT - ....
Page 2 of 5
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
30 
 
Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) from the bidding process or to terminate the contract, if signed on 
that ground. 
2. If the Bidder/ Contractor has committed a tr ansgression through a viol ation of Section 2 
such as to put his reliability or credibility in to question, the Employer shall be entitled to 
exclude including blacklist and put on holiday the Bidder/ C ontractor for any future 
tenders/contract award process. The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be 
determined by the severity of the transgressi on. The severity will be determined by the 
Employer taking into consideration the fu ll facts and circumstances of each case 
particularly taking into account the numbe r of transgressions, the position of the 
transgressors within the company hierarchy of  the Bidder and the am ount of the damage. 
The exclusion will be imposed for a period not exceeding two (02) years. 
3. A transgression is considered to have occurred if the Employer after due consideration of 
the available evidence concludes that no reasonable doubt is possible. 
4. The Bidder with its free consent and without any influence agrees and undertakes to respect 
and uphold the Employer's absolute rights to resort to and impose such exclusion and 
further accepts and undertakes not to challenge or question such exclusion on any ground, 
including the lack of any heari ng before the decision to resort  to such exclusion is taken. 
This undertaking is given freely and after obtaining independent legal advice. 
5. Subject to full satisfaction of the Employer, the exclusion of Bidder/ Contractor could be 
revoked by the Employer if the Bidder/ Contractor can prove that he has restored/ recouped 
the damage caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention system in his 
organization. 
Section 4        Compensation for Damages including Forfeiture of Earnest Money Deposit/ 
Security Deposit/ Performance & Advance Bank Guarantees 
1. If the Employer has disqualified the Bidder/ Contractor from the bi dding process or has 
terminated the contract pursuant to Section 3, the Employer shall forfeit the Earnest Money 
Deposit/Bid Security, encash Contract Performance Bank Guarantees in addition to 
excluding the bidder from the future award process and terminating the contract. 
2. In addition to 1 above, the Employer shall be entitled to take recourse to the relevant 
provisions of the contract related to Termination of Contract due to Contractor's Default. 
Section 5 Previous Transgressions 
1. The Bidder swears on oath that no previous transgression impinging on anti-corruption 
principles / any malpractice as mentioned in Section-2 has occurred in the last three years 
immediately before signing of this Integrity  Pact, with any other company / any Public 
Sector Enterprise/ Undertaking in India / any Government Department in India. 
ATTACHMENT - ....
Page 3 of 5
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
31 
 
2. If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on prev ious transgression as mentioned above in 
para 1, Bidder can be disqualified from the bidding process or the contract, if already 
awarded, can be terminated on this ground 
Section 6 Company Code of Conduct 
Bidders are also advised to ha ve a company code of conduct (c learly rejecting the use of 
bribes and other unethical behaviour) and a compliance program for the implementation of 
the code of conduct throughout the company. 
Section 7 Independent Ex ternal Monitors (IEM) 
1. The Employer will appoint competent and credible Independent External Monitor for this 
Pact. The task of the IEMs is to review independently and objectively, whether and to what 
extent the parties comply with the obligations under this agreement. 
2. The IEMs are not subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties and performs 
his functions neutrally and independently. He  shall report to CEO of the Employer or a 
person authorized by him. 
3. The Bidder/Contractor accepts that the IEMs have the right to access without restriction to 
all Project documentations of the Employer including that provided by the Contractor. The 
Contractor will also grant the IEMs, upon his request and demonstration of a valid interest, 
unrestricted and unconditional access to his Project Documentations. The same is 
applicable to Subcontractors. The IEMs are under contractual oblig ation to treat the 
information and documents of the Bidder / Contractor / Sub-Contractors/ JV 
partners/Consortium member with confidentiality. 
4. The Employer will provide to the IEMs suffic ient information about all meetings among 
the parties related to the Pr oject provided such meetings could have an impact on the 
contractual relations between the Employer and the Contr actor. The parties offer to the 
IEMs the option to participate in such meetings. 
5. As soon as the IEMs notices, or believes to noti ce, a violation of this  agreement, he will 
so inform the Management of the Employer (CEO of the Employer or a person authorized 
by him) and request to discontinue or to take corrective action, or to  take other relevant 
action. The IEMs can in th is regard submit non-bindi ng recommendations. Beyond this, 
the IEMs has no right to demand from the parties that they act in a specific manner, refrain 
from action or tolerate action. However, Independent External Monitor shall give an 
opportunity to the bidder/contractor to present its case before making its recommendations 
to the Employer. 
6. The IEMs will submit a written report to CEO of the Employer or a person authorized by 
him within 30 days from the date of referenc e or intimation to him by the Employer and, 
should the occasion arise, submit proposals for correcting problematic situations. 
ATTACHMENT - ....
Page 4 of 5
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
32 
 
7. The Bidder / Contractor accepts that they sha ll not approach courts while the matter / 
complaint / dispute has been referred to the IEM in terms of this pact and they shall await 
IEM’s decision before approaching any Court. 
8. If the IEMs have reported to CEO of the Employer or a person authorized by him a 
substantiated suspicion of an offence under relevant IPC/ PC Act, and he  has not, within 
reasonable time, taken visible ac tion to proceed against such o ffence or reported it to the 
Chief Vigilance Officer, the IEMs may also transmit this information directly to the 
Central Vigilance Commissioner, Government of India. 
9. The word " IEM" will include Singular or Plural. 
Section 8 Pact Duration 
This Pact comes into force from the date of signing by all the parties. It shall expire for the 
Contractor 12 months after the last payment under the respective Contract, and for all other 
unsuccessful bidders 6 months after the Contract has been awarded. 
Section 9 Miscellaneous Provisions 
1. This Pact is subject to Indian Law. The place of performance and jurisdiction shall be New 
Delhi. 
2. Should one or several provisions of this Pact tu rn out to be invalid; the remainder of this 
Pact remains valid. In this case, the parties will st rive to come to an agreement to their original 
intentions. 
3. The actions stipulated in this Integrity Pact are without prejudice to any other legal action 
that may follow in accordance with the provisions of the extant law in force relating to any civil 
or criminal proceedings. 
4. If the Contractor is a JV partnership / Consortium, this agreement must be signed by all 
the partners of JV / Consortium Partners as the case may be. 
The Parties hereby sign this Integrity Pact at ............. on this  .........  day of ....... 20 
Employer Bidder/ Contractor Joint Venture Partner(s)/ 
Consortium member(s) (As 
Applicable) 
Witness Witness Witness 
1. 1. 1. 
2. 2. 2. 
ATTACHMENT - .... 
Page 5 of 5 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
33 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 3 
Annexure -E 
 
Proforma of BANK GUARANTEE FOR “CONTRACT PERFORMANCE 
GUARANTEE (CPG) / SECURITY DEPOSIT (SD)” 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act) 
(The stamp paper should be in the name of issuing bank) 
 
Ref. Bank guarantee No. 
 
Date: 
 
To, 
Aravali Power Company Private Limited (APCPL) 
Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Station 
Vill. Jharli, Tehsil Matanhail, 
Distt Jhajjar – 124141 
Haryana 
 
Dear Sirs, 
In consideration of the APCPL (her einafter referred to as the “Owner”, which expression shall unless 
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include s its executers, administr ators, successors and 
assigns) having accepted offer of pur chase of fly ash by M/s.............. with its Registered / Head office 
at .................... (hereinafter referred to as “Buyer”, which expression shall unless repugnant to the context 
or meaning thereof includes its executers, administrators, successors and assigns) a contract by issue of 
Owner’s Letter of Award No...........dated…..and the sa me having been unequivoc ally accepted by the 
Buyer resulting in a “CONTRACT” bearing No….. for sale / supply of fly ash and the Buyer having agreed 
to provide a contract performance guarantee for the faithful performance of the entire contract equivalent 
to Rs (in figure and words) to the Seller. 
We……….... (Name & Address), having our Head office at ………………. and Branch office at 
…………………… (hereinafter referred to as “Bank”, whic h expression shall unless repugnant to the 
context or meaning thereof includes its executers, administrators, successors and assigns) do hereby 
guarantee and undertake to pay promptly to the Own er on demand any and all monies payable by the 
Buyer to the extent of .............. as aforesaid at any time upto *     (DD/MM/YYYY) without any demur, 
reservation, contest, recourse or pr otest and / or without any referenc e to the Buyer. Any such demand 
made by the Owner on the bank shall be conclusive and binding notwithstanding any difference between 
the Owner and the Buyer or any dis pute pending before any court, tribunal or a ny other authority. The 
bank undertakes not to revoke this bank guarantee during its currency w ithout previous consent of the 
Owner and further agrees that the guarantee herein contained shall con tinue to be enforceable till the 
Owner discharges this guarantee. 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
34 
 
 
 Page 2 of 3 
 
 
The Owner shall have the fullest liberty without affecting in anyway the liability of the bank under this 
guarantee from time to time to extend the time for performance of the contract by the Buyer. The Owner 
shall have the fullest liberty, without affecting this guarantee to postpone from time to time the exercise 
of any powers vested in them or of  any right which they might have ag ainst the Buyer, and to exercise 
the same at any time any manner, and whether to enforce or to forb ear or to enforc e any covenants, 
contained or implied, in the contract between the Owner and the Buyer or any other course of remedy or 
security available to the Owner. The bank shall not be released of its obligation under these presents by 
any exercise by the Owner of its libe rty with reference to the matters aforesaid or any of them or by a 
reason of any other acts of omissi on or commission on the part of the Owner or  any other indulgence 
shown by the Owner or by any other matters or thing whatsoever wh ich under law would, but for this 
provision, have the effect of relieving the bank. 
 
 
The bank also agrees that the Owner at its option shal l be entitled to enforce this guarantee against the 
bank as a principal debtor, in the first instance without proceeding against the Buyer and notwithstanding 
any security or other guarantee that the Seller may have in relation to the Buyer’s liabilities. 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained he rein above our liability under this guarantee is restricted to 
..................... and it shall remain in force upto and including ........................................................ *. 
and  shall  be extended  from  ti me to  time for such  period,  as   may  be   de sired  by  M/s 
............................. on whose behalf this guarantee has been given. 
 
 
Dated this .................................................................................................... day 
 
Of.......................... 20XX......................... at..................... 
 
 
 
 
Witness     (Signature) ................................. 
 
  .................................. 
 
(Signature) 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
35 
 
 Page 3 of 3 
 
 
In witness whereof the ............................. Bank, through its authorized officer, has set its hand 
and seal on this ……………………………………..  day of ……………….. …………….
 20….. 
… … 
 
at . ………………… 
 
Witness  
 (Signature) ………………. 
 
.................................... 
 
(Signature) (Name) ……………………........................... 
 
......................................... (Designation with Bank stamp) 
 
 
(Name) 
 
............................................. Attorney 
 
(Official Address) Power of Attorney No. ... 
 
Date......... 
 
NOTE : 
 
1.  (*) The Date will be Three Months beyond the expiry of the Contract period as 
specified in the order. 
 
2. The Bank Guarantee shall be from a bank as per provisions of bidding documents. 
 
3. While getting the Bank Guarantee issued, Bidder is required to ensure compliance to the points 
mentioned in the Bank Guarantee Verification Check List in the bidding documents. Further, 
Bidder is required to fill up this check List and enclose the same with the Bank Guarantee. 
 
4. The Stamp paper of appropriate value shall be purchased in the name of guarantee issuing bank 
or the party on whose behalf the BG is being i ssued. The Bank Guarantee shall be issued on 
non-judicial Stamp paper of appropriate value as per Stamp act prevailing in the States where 
the BG is to be submitted or is to be acted upon or the rate prevailing in the state where the 
BG is executed, whichever is higher.
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
36 
 
 
(Pro forma for extension of Bank Guarantee) 
(To be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act) 
 
(The stamp paper should be in the name of issuing bank) 
 
Ref. No. Date …. … … 
 
To, 
Aravali Power Company Private Limited 
Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Station 
Vill. Jharli, Tehsil Matanhail, 
Distt Jhajjar – 124141 
Haryana 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Sub : Extension of Bank Guarantee No……………………………… dtd………………. for 
Rs………………… 
favouring yourselves, expiring on …………. Account of M/s……………………………….. in respect 
of contract No……………… dtd ..... (hereinafter  called “Original Bank Guarantee”). 
At the request of M/s……………………………………., We ..................... bank, branch office at 
……………………….. and having its head office at ………………….. do hereby extend our liability 
under the above mentioned guarantee No. ………………………. dtd ........ for a further period of 
…………………………… years/months from ………………… to expire on ……………….. 
 
Except as provided above, all other terms and conditions of the original bank guarantee No…………….. 
dtd ...................................... shall remain unaltered and binding. 
Please treat this as an integral part of the original guarantee to which it would be attached. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Signature ……………………………………  
 
Name ………………………………………………  
 
Designation ………………………  
 
Authorized Vide Power of Attorney No........................ 
 
Dated    
 
SEAL OF BANK 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
37 
 
NOTE: The stamp paper of appropriate value should be purchased in the name of the bank who 
has issued bank guarantee. 
 
Annexure-F 
 
BANK GUARANTEE VERIFICATION CHECK LIST 
 
1. Bank Guarantee No. & Date : ……………………………………… 
 
2. Name of Issuing Bank : ……………………………………… 
 
3. Amount of BG : ……………………………………… 
 
4. Nature of BG & No. of Pages : ……………………………………… 
 
5. Validity of  BG : ……………………………………… 
 
6. Vendor Reference : ……………………………………… 
Name  ………………………………………………………………. 
Address ……………………………………………………………….. 
Telephone ………………………………………………………………. 
Mob. No.  ………………………………………………………………. 
Email  ……………………………………………………………….. 
7. Bank Reference  
Name  ………………………………………………………………. 
Address ……………………………………………………………….. 
Telephone ………………………………………………………………. 
Mob. No.  ………………………………………………………………. 
Email  …………………………………………………………….. 
Sl. No. Details of Checks Yes / No 
1. Is the BG on Non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value, as per Stamp 
Act? 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
38 
 
2. Whether date, purpose of purchase of stamp paper and name of the 
purchaser are indicated on the back of stamp paper under the Signature 
of Stamp Vendor? 
(The date of purchase of stamp paper should be not later than the date of 
execution of BG and the stamp paper should be purchased either in the 
name of the executing Bank or the Bidder on whose behalf the BG has been 
issued. Also, the stamp paper should not be olde r than six months from 
the date of execution of BG). 
 
3. In case of BGs from Banks abroad, has the BG been executed on Letter 
Head of the Bank. 
 
4. Has the executing officer of BG indicated his name, designation and Power 
of Attorney No. / Signing Power No., on the BG? 
 
5. Is each page of BG duly signed / initialed by executant and whether 
stamp of Bank is affixed thereon? 
 
6. Whether the last page is signed with  full particulars including two witness 
under seal of Bank as required in the prescribed proforma? 
 
7. Does the Bank Guarantee compare verbatim with the Proforma prescribed in 
the Bidding Documents? 
 
8. Are the factual details such as Bidding Documents No. / Specification 
No., Amount of BG, validity of BG correctly mentioned in the BG? 
 
9. Whether overwriting / cutting, if any on the BG have been properly 
authenticated under signature & seal of executants? 
 
10. Whether BG has been issued by a Bank in line with the provisions of 
Bidding Documents? 
 
11. In case BG has been issued by a Bank other than those specified in Bidding 
Document, is the BG confirmed by a Bank in India acceptable as per 
Bidding Document? 
 
 
Signature of Bidder………………….. 
Name ………………………………….. 
Designation …………………………. 
Seal ……………………………………. 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
39 
 
Annexure – I 
List of the Banks for 
SUBMISSION OF BANK GUARANTEE AS CONTRACT PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE 
UPDATED SCHEDULED COMMERCIAL BANK LIST   
A STATE BANK OF INDIA 
B NATIONALISED BANKS 
1. Bank of Baroda 
2. Bank of India 
3. Bank of Maharashtra 
4. Canara Bank 
5. Central Bank of India 
6. Indian Overseas Bank 
7. Indian Bank 
8. Punjab National Bank 
9. Union Bank of India 
10. Punjab & Sind Bank 
11. UCO Bank 
C SCHEDULED PRIVATE BANKS (INDIAN BANKS) 
1. Axis Bank Ltd 
2. Bandhan Bank Limited 
3. CSB Bank 
4. City Union Bank 
5. DCB Bank Ltd 
6. Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd 
7. Federal Bank Ltd 
8. HDFC Bank Ltd 
9. ICICI Bank Ltd 
10. IndusInd Bank Ltd 
11. IDFC FIRST Bank Limited 
12. Jammu & Kashmir Bank Ltd 
13. Karnataka Bank Ltd 
14. Karur Vysya Bank Ltd 
15. Kotak Mahindra Bank 
16. Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd 
17. Nainital Bank Ltd 
18. RBL Bank Limited 
19. South Indian Bank Ltd 
20. Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd 
21. Yes Bank Ltd 
22. IDBI Bank Ltd. 
D SCHEDULED PRIVATE BANKS (FOREIGN BANKS) 
1. AB Bank Ltd 
2. Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC 
3. American Express Banking Corporation 
4. Australia & Newzealand Banking Group Limited 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
40 
 
5. Barclays Bank Plc 
6. Bank of America 
7. Bank of Bahrain & Kuwait B.S.C. 
8. Bank of Ceylon 
9. Bank of China Limited 
10. Bank of Nova Scotia 
11. BNP Paribas 
12. Citi Bank NA 
13. Cooperatieve Rabobank UA 
14. Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank 
15. Credit Suisse AG 
16. CTBC Bank Co Ltd 
17. DBS Bank India Ltd 
18. Deutsche Bank A.G. 
19. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C 
20. Emirates NBD Bank (PJSC) 
21. First Abu Dhabi Bank PJSC 
22. FirstRand Bank Ltd 
23. HSBC Ltd 
24. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd 
25. Industrial Bank of Korea 
26. JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association 
27. JSC VTB Bank 
28. KEB Hana Bank 
29. Kookmin Bank 
30. Krung Thai Bank Public Company Ltd 
31. Mashreq Bank PSC 
32. Mizuho Bank Ltd 
33. MUFG Bank, Ltd 
34. NatWest Markets Plc 
35. PT Bank Maybank Indonesia TBK 
36. Qatar National Bank (Q.P.S.C.) 
37. Sberbank 
38. SBM Bank (India) Ltd 
39. Shinhan Bank 
40. Societe Generale  
41. Sonali Bank Ltd 
42. Standard Chartered Bank 
43. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 
44. United Overseas Bank Ltd 
45. Westpac Banking Corporation 
46. Woori Bank 
*Note - Any Addition/ Deletion/ Modification in Bank list shall be as per changes in Second Schedule List 
by RBI from time to time 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
41 
 
Annexure – G 
 
INDEMNITY BOND  
(On non-judicial paper of appropriate value and to be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act. The 
stamp paper to be in the name of Ash Recipient) 
 
This bond of indemnity is made on this……………… day of…….………by  ………..(name),…………….. 
(address) and ……………………………(details of the incorporation of the Ash Recipient)  hereinafter referred 
to as the ‘Ash Recipient’ which expression shall unless re pugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its 
successors, administrators, executors and assigns) in favour of...........APCPL -….IGSTPP…. (hereinafter referred 
to as the ‘Thermal Power Plant (hereinafter called TPP)’, which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context 
or meaning thereof include its successors, administrators and assigns) 
WHEREAS, TPP has issued to the Ash Recipient, an order/ permission letter No..……….. dated…………. and in 
terms of the said Order, the TPP has agreed to issue Dry Fly Ash to Ash Recipient.  
AND WHEREAS one of the conditions for the issue of the ‘D ry Fly Ash’ is that the Ash Recipient shall furnish 
an Indemnity Bond in favour of the TPP, indemnifyi ng TPP from any liability of whatsoever nature, which may 
arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicab le norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during 
the course of execution of order/ permission letter  no…….. by way of omission or commission by the Ash 
Recipient or its representatives / agents. 
 
Now this Indemnity Bond witnesseth as follows: 
 
1.0 The Ash Recipient hereby undertakes to fully and irrevocably indemnify and keep indemnified the TPP 
against any and all of various liabilities of whatsoever nature,  which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws including MOEF&CC 
Guidelines during the course of lifting or handling of Ash and  for future obligations (if any), by way of 
omission or commission by the Ash Recipient or its representatives / agents for Ash issued by the TPP to 
the Ash Recipient vide order / permission letter  no./ LOA no. …………  
2.0 This Indemnity Bond shall be valid till six (6) calendar months after the scheduled date / actual date of 
complete lifting of allocated Ash Quantity, whichever is later. 
3.0 It is clearly understood and agreed to by the Ash Recipient that non-observance of the obligations under 
this Indemnity Bond by the Ash Recipient shall Inter-alia constitute a criminal breach of trust on the part 
of the Ash Recipient and they shall be liable for all legal/penal consequences thereof as decided by TPP. 
4.0 Now the condition of this Bond is that the Ash Recipient shall duly and punctually comply with all the 
terms and conditions of this bond to the satisfaction of TPP, then, the above bond shall be void, but 
otherwise, it shall remain in full force. 
5.0 That this bond shall be irrevocable during its validity period and the Ash Recipient shall not revoke this 
bond till it is discharged by TPP in writing. 
 
WITNESS 
.............................                                         (Signature)................................................ 
(Signature) 
...................................                                   (Name of Ash Recipient)……………. (Name) 
...............................                                        Name of the Authorised person 
(Official Address)                                            having Power of Attorney.................. 
Designation....................................... 
Seal.................................................. 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
42 
 
Annexure- D 
AFFIDAVIT 
(To be submitted by the Ash Recipient on Half Yearly basis) 
(To be executed on a  Rs 100 non-judicial stamp 
paper of appropriate value) 
 (To be notarized before a notary public) 
 
I son / daughter /wife of permanent 
resident of   do 
hereby solemnly affirm and state on oath as under: 
 
1. That I am the owner/proprietor/partner/authorized representative of M/s  
 having their registered office at  
 and engaged in the business of  
 
That I/we have participated in auction/ Eo I for allotment of Ash from APCPL (Indira Gandhi 
Super Thermal Power Plant), against EoI / Bid Specification / Auction Document 
number  and that I 
      / we have been allocated MT quantity of Ash from APCPL ( Indira Gandhi Super Thermal 
Power Plant). 
2. That I hereby affirm that Ash Recipient, M/s has used the 
received Ash quantity in adherence to the relevant provisions identified vide extant Notifications 
and other applicable statutory regulations, in the following activities:- 
 
a.   
b.   
c.   
DEPONENT 
 
VERIFICATION 
 
Verified on this day of that the conten ts of our affidavit are true and correct 
to the best of my knowledge and nothing material has been concealed there of. 
 
DEPONENT 
 
 
 
Note: To be submitted on Half Yearly basis. 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
43 
 
SECTION V: 
Other CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
 
1. INTEGRITY PACT:  
Bidders are required to unconditionally accept all the conditions of the "Integrity Pact (IP)" as 
per Attachment-K (Appendix-I) to the Bidding Documents which has been pre-signed by the 
Employer. 
         
 Bidders shall certify their compliance on " Integrity Pact " by accepting the terms and conditions                
of the e-auction at E-Auction Portal. Additionally, bidders shall certify their compliance on "Integrity Pact 
" by submitting the NIL    deviation Certificate and ac cepting full compliance to all provisions of Bidding 
Document (Annexure II A). 
 
On Bidder’s acceptance to the above condition,  Bidder confirms to have read, understood and 
unconditionally accept & commit to all the contents, terms, conditions and undertakings 
mentioned in the Integrity Pact which has been pre- signed by the Employer and enclosed with 
the Bidding Documents. Where the Joint Venture(s)  / Consortium are permitted to participate in 
the bid, acceptance of above terms and conditions of the e-auction at E-Auction Portal bidder shall 
mean that all the JV Partner(s)/ Consortium members have read, understood and unconditionally 
accepted & committed to all the contents, terms, conditions and undertakings mentioned in the 
Integrity Pact which has been pre- signed by the Employer and enclosed with the Bidding 
Documents. 
On Acceptance of the above GTE, Integrity Pact shall be considered signed by the Bidder / JV 
Partner(s)/ Consortium members and the same shall come into force from the date of submission 
of bid. 
The Integrity Pact shall not be required to be submitted in Physical Form wherever, bids are being 
invited through E-Tendering portal / GePNIC/ E-auction  . 
It may also be noted that subsequent to Employer ’s evaluation of Bids, resulting into award of 
Contract to a particular Bidder, the Integrity Pact so submitted shall form an integral part of the 
Contract. 
 
INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL MONITORS (IEM)S  
In respect of this package, the Independent External Monitors (IEMs) would be monitoring the 
implementation and effectiveness of the Integrity Pact Program as per the SOP issued by CVC 
from time to time and available in its website https://cvc.gov.in/ 
The Independent External Monitor(s) (IEM s) as mentioned at NTPC/APCPL tender 
website(https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/, https://www.apcpl.co.in/) under Integrity Pact tab have 
been appointed by APCPL, in terms of Integrity Pact (IP) which forms part of the APCPL 
Tenders/Contracts. The nominated IEMS of APCPL are: 
 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
44 
 
   
This panel is authorized to exam ine /consider all references made  to it under this tender. The 
bidder(s), in case of any representation/grievance/complaint pertaining to this package may raise 
the issue directly with the IEMs at following Address or through e-mail as mentioned in 
https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ , https://www.apcpl.co.in 
 
“The IEMs' Secretariat, 
Contracts Services, 3rd Floor, Administrative Building, 
APCPL, Jharli 
Jhajjar-124141 (Haryana).” 
 
For the purpose of Integrity Pact, “Sub-contractor” shall mean only the approved Sub- contractor 
by the Employer for specific Work(s) at Site. 
• The Contractor shall not be allowed to sub-contract Work(s) to any approved agencies for 
a sub-contracting work as provided in the Contract or to Contractor for which approval by 
Employer is required, as per GCC sub-claus e 30.1, unless such sub- contractor has 
agreed to abide by and sign the Tripartite Integrity Pact as in the section ‘Forms & 
Procedures’ of the bidding document, before start of work by respective sub- contractor. 
• Tripartite Integrity Pact as in the section "Forms and Procedures" of the bidding 
documents, shall be signed by the Project Manager or his authorized representative, 
Contractor & Sub-contractor and the original copy of the same shall be submitted by 
Contractor to NTPC Project Manager, prior to commencement of work by Sub- contractor. 
This Tripartite Integrity Pact shall also form part of the Contract. 
The Nodal Officer for necessary coordination in this regard shall be as under: 
  Head of C&M : if the issue pertains to awarding 
of Contract by C&M 
  
ii.   Concerned Head of 
Department 
  
: if the issue pertains to other 
departments 

 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
45 
 
iii.   CEO          : if the issue pertains to post-award 
execution or award of Contract by 
Project/ Station 
The Nodal Officer(s) shall coordinate with  IEMs through C&M department. Further, 
HoD (C&M) under the C&M department shall be the Convenor for the above purpose. 
  
2A. Acquaintances of local conditions 
It will be imperative for the Bidder to fully inform hi mself of all local conditions, legal requirement and 
factors which shall have any effect on the execution of the agreement / Sale work covered under these 
documents and specifications. 
 
2B. Language of the Contract 
All bids shall be submitted in English Language 
 
3. Confidentiality 
a Information relating to the examination, clarification, evaluation, and comparison of bids, and 
recommendations for allocation shall not be disclosed to bidders or any other person not officially 
concerned with such process. 
b Any effort by the bidder to influence the Owner in the Owner’s bid evaluation, bid comparison, or 
allocation decisions may result in the rejection of the Bidder’s bid. 
a. From the time of bid opening to the time of allocation, if any Bidder wishes to contact the Seller 
on any matter related to its bid, it should do so in writing. 
4. Examination of Bids and Determination of Responsiveness 
a. The Owner will examine the bids to determine whether they are complete, whether any 
computational errors have been made, whether the documents have been properly signed, and 
whether the bids are generally in order. 
b. The Owner may waive any minor informality, nonconformity, or irregularity in a bid that does not 
constitute a material deviation, provided such waiver does not prejudice or affect the relative 
ranking of any Bidder. 
 
5. Settlement of Disputes 
 
5.1 Mutual Consultation 
 
 If any dispute of any kind whatsoever sh all arise between the Owner and the Buyer 
in connection with or arising out of the Contract, including without prejudice to the 
generality of the foregoing, any question regarding its existence, validity or 
termination, or the execution of the Facilit ies, whether during the progress of the 
Facilities or after their completion and whether before or after the termination, 
abandonment or breach of the Contract, th e parties shall seek to resolve any such 
dispute or difference by mutual consultation  
 On reference of such a dispute by either party, the Owner shall invite the Buyer for 
mutual consultation, within seven (07) working days of such reference. 
 
 Without admitting the Owner’s liability, the Owner may obtain, within 30 days of 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
46 
 
reference of the dispute, further details from the Buyer and examine it relating to 
the dispute. Such examination (if any) by the Owner shall not imply acceptance of 
the accuracy or completeness of the deta ils. The Owner may hold discussions with 
Buyer with an effort to resolve the dispute.  
 If the parties fail to resolve such a disp ute or difference by mutual consultation 
within a period of forty-five (45) days from the date of reference of such dispute or 
within such extended period as the parties shall agree in writing, then the dispute 
may be settled through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/ or Mediation 
through Independent External Monitors (if applicable) and/or through Conciliation 
and/or Arbitration (if applicable) / other remedies available under the applicable 
laws.  
 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the 
parties shall keep confidenti al all matters relating to the Mutual consultation 
proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to any agreement reached during 
Mutual consultation, except  where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of 
implementation and enforcement.  
 The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Independent Engineer/ 
Mediation/ Conciliation/ Arbitral or Judicial proceedings, whether or not such 
proceedings relate to the dispute that is  the subject of the Mutual consultation 
proceedings:  
 a) views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a possible 
settlement of the dispute;  
 b )  a d m i s s i o n s  m a d e  b y  t h e  o t h e r  p a r t y  i n  t h e  c o u r s e  o f  t h e  m u t u a l  
consultation proceedings;  
 c) the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to accept a proposal 
for mutual settlement. 
 
5.2  Resolution of Dispute through Independent Engineer (IE)  
 Not Applicable  
 
5.3. Mediation through Independent External Monitors (IEMs)  
 Not Applicable  
5.4. Resolution of Dispute through Conciliation  
 If the parties fail to resolve such a disput e or difference by mutual consultation and 
through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through Mediation (if 
applicable) within a period as specified at Clause 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 above, the dispute 
if the parties agree, may be referred to Conciliation.  
 (i) For cases where the disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is upto INR 25 Crore (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation shall 
be referred to Expert Settlement Council (ESC), constituted by Owner.  
 (ii) For cases where the disputed amount (C laim / Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is above INR 25 Crore (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation shall 
be referred to Conciliation Committee of  Independent Experts (CCIE), constituted 
by Ministry of Power (MoP).  
 If the claim / Counter-claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange 
rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the 
claim in Indian Rupee.  
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
47 
 
 The Conciliation process shall be conducted as per Part III of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996.  
 In case of failure of the conciliation process at the level of the CCIE, the parties 
may withdraw from conciliation process and take recourse to the laid down legal 
process of Courts. The option of Arbitration would not be available once the 
conciliation mechanism through CCIE has been exercised. 
 
 
5.4.1. Resolution of Dispute through Expert Se ttlement Council (ESC), constituted by Owner 
{For cases with Disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is higher) upto 
INR 25 Crore excluding interest}  
 If the parties fail to resolve such a disput e or difference by mutual consultation and 
through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through Mediation (if 
applicable) within a period specified at Clause 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 above, the dispute, 
if the parties agree, may be referred to Conciliation through Expert Settlement 
Council (ESC), in cases where the Disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, 
whichever is higher) is upto INR 25 crore (excluding interest).  
 5.4.1.1. Invitation for Conciliation through ESC:  
 5.4.1.1.1. A party shall notify the other party in writing about such a dispute it 
wishes to refer for Conciliation through ESC within a period of 15 days from the date 
of failure to resolve the dispute throug h Mutual Consultation and Independent 
Engineer (if applicable) and / or through Mediation (if applicable) within a period as 
specified at Clause 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 above. Such Invitation for Conciliation shall 
contain sufficient information as to the dispute to enable the other party to be fully 
informed as to the nature of the dispute, amount of the monetary claim, if any, and 
apparent cause of action.  
 5.4.1.1.2. Upon acceptance of the invitation to conciliate, the other party shall 
submit its counter claim, if any, within a period of 15 days from the date of the 
invitation to conciliate. If the other party rejects the invitation or Disputed amount 
(Claim / Counter claim, whichever is higher) exceeds INR 25 crore (excluding 
Interest), there will be no Conciliation proceedings through ESC.  
 There shall be no Conciliation where di sputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, 
whichever is higher excluding interest) is only up to INR 5 lakhs.  
5.4.1.1.3. If the party initiating Conciliation does not receive a reply within fifteen (15) 
days from the date on which it sends the invitation, or within such other period of 
time as specified in the invitation, it shall treat this as a rejection of the invitation 
to conciliate from the other party.  
 
5.4.1.2. Conciliation through ESC:  
 
5.4.1.2.1. Where Invitation for Conciliation has been furnished under sub clause 5.4.1.1, 
the parties shall attempt to settle such dispute through Expert Settlement Council 
(ESC) which shall be constituted by CMD / Chairman of Owner.  
 
5.4.1.2.2. ESC will be formed from experts compri sing three members from the panel of 
Conciliators maintained by Owner. Howeve r, there will be single member ESC for 
disputes involving disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is higher 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
48 
 
excluding interest) is up to INR 1 crore.  
 CMD / Chairman of Owner shall have the auth ority to reconstitute the ESC to fill any 
vacancy. 
 
5.4.1.2.3. The ESC shall be amongst Civil Servants of Government of India retired from the 
level of Joint Secretary and above, Retired Judges, Officers retired from the level of 
Executive Director and above of any Maharatna / Navratna company in India, other 
than NTPC Ltd, Retired Independent Direct ors who have served on the Board of any 
Maharatna / Navratna company in India, other than NTPC Ltd.  
5.4.1.3. Proceedings before ESC:  
5.4.1.3.1. The claimant shall submit its Statement of Claims (SOC) along with relevant 
documents to ESC members, and to the part y(s) indicated in the appointment letter 
within 15 days of appointment of ESC. The respondent shall file its reply / Statement 
of Defence (SOD) and counter claim (if any)  within 15 days of the receipt of the 
Statement of claims. Each party shall send a copy of such Statement along with 
relevant documents to the other party.  
 Parties may file their rejoinder / additional documents, if any in support of their 
Claim / Counterclaim within next 7 days. No documents shall be allowed thereafter, 
except with the permission of ESC.  
5.4.1.3.2. The parties shall file their claim and counterclaim in the following format  
 a. Chronology of the dispute  
 b. Brief of the contract  
 c. Brief history of the dispute  
 d. Issues 
 
 
 e. Details of Claim(s) / Counter Claim(s)  
 f. Basis / Ground of claim(s) / counter claim(s) (along with relevant clause of 
contract  
 Note: Statement of claims shall be rest ricted to maximum limit of 20 pages.  
5.4.1.3.3. In case of 3 members ESC, 2 members will constitute a valid quorum and the 
meeting can take place to proceed in th e matter after seeking consent from the 
member who is not available. However, ES C recommendations will be signed by all 
the members.  
 If required, meetings can be conducted through video conferencing / other digital 
means subject to the agreement be tween the parties and the ESC.  
5.4.1.3.4. The parties shall be represented by their in house employees. No party shall be 
allowed to bring any advocate or outside consultant / advisor / agent to contest on 
their behalf. Ex-officers of Owner’s Organization who have handled the subject 

 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
49 
 
matter in any capacity shall not be allowe d to attend and present the case before 
ESC on behalf of buyer. However, ex-employees of parties may represent their 
respective organizations. Parties shall not claim any interest on claims / counter-
claims from the date of notice invoking Conciliation till execution of settlement 
agreement, if so arrived. In case, parties are unable to reach a settlement, no 
interest shall be claimed by either party for the period from the date of notice 
invoking Conciliation till the date of ESC recommendations and 30 days thereafter 
in any further proceeding.  
5.4.1.3.5. ESC will conclude its proceedings in maximum 10 meetings, and give its 
recommendations within 90 days from the date of reference to ESC. ESC will give 
its recommendations to both the parties recommending possible terms of 
settlement.CMD / Chairman of Owner may extend the time/number of meetings, in 
exceptional cases, if ESC requests for the same with sufficient reasons and as agreed 
by the parties. 
 
5.4.1.3.6. Depending upon the location of ESC members and the parties, the venue of the 
ESC meeting shall be either Delhi / Mumbai / Kolkata / Chennai or any other city 
whichever is most economical from the point of view of travel and stay etc. All the 
expenditure incurred in ESC proceedings sh all be shared by the parties in equal 
proportion. 
 
5.4.1.4. Fees and Facilities to the Members of the ESC 
 
 

 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
50 
 
 
 
 
 Aforesaid fees is subject to revision by  Owner from time to time and subject to 
government guidelines on austerity measures, if any. All the expenditure incurred 
in the ESC proceedings shall be shared by  the parties in equal proportions. The 
Parties shall maintain the account of expe nditure and present to the other for the 
purpose of sharing on conclusion of the ESC proceedings.  
5.4.1.5. If recommendations/ report of ESC is acceptable to both the parties, a Settlement 
Agreement under Section 73 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 will be 
signed to the extent agreed by the part ies within 15 days of acceptance by the 
parties and same shall be authenti cated by all the ESC members.  
 Parties are free to terminate Conciliation proceedings at any stage as provided under 

 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
51 
 
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996.  
5.4.1.6. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, 
the Conciliator and the parties shall keep co nfidential all matters relating to the 
Conciliation proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to the settlement 
agreement, except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of implementation 
and enforcement.  
 The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral or judicial 
proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate to the dispute that is the 
subject of the Conciliation proceedings, —  
 a. views expressed or suggestions made by th e other party in respect of a possible 
settlement of the dispute;  
 b. admissions made by the other party in the course of the Conciliation proceedings;  
 c. proposals made by the Conciliator; and  
 d. the fact that the other party had indicate d his willingness to accept a proposal 
for settlement made by the Conciliator.  
5.4.2. Resolution of Dispute through Concilia tion Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE), 
constituted by Ministry of Power (MoP) {For cases with Disputed amount (Claim / 
Counter claim whichever is higher) above INR 25 Crore excluding interest}  
 If the parties fail to resolve such a disput e or difference by mutual consultation and 
through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and / or through Mediation (if 
applicable) within a period specified at Clause 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 above, the dispute, if 
the parties agree, may be referred to Conc iliation Committee of Independent Experts 
(CCIE), in cases where the Disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim whichever is 
higher) is above INR 25 crore excluding in terest. The option of Arbitration would 
not be available once the conciliation mechanism through CCIE has been exercised.  
5.4.2.1. Invitation for Conciliation through CCIE:  
5.4.2.1.1. A party shall notify the other party in writing about such a dispute it wishes to 
refer for CCIE within a period  of 15 days from the date of failure to resolve the 
dispute through Mutual Consultation and Independent Engineer (if applicable) and 
/ or through Mediation (if applicable) within a period as specified at Clause 5.1, 5.2 
and 5.3 above. Such Invitation for Concil iation shall contain sufficient information 
as to the dispute to enable the other party to be fully informed as to the nature of 
the dispute, amount of the monetary claim, if any, and apparent cause of action. 
 
5.4.2.1.2. If the party initiating Conciliation does not receive a reply within fifteen (15) 
days from the date on which it sends the invitation, or within such other period of 
time as specified in the invitation, it shall treat this as a rejection of the invitation 
to conciliate from the other party.  
5.4.2.2. Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts:  
5.4.2.2.1. Where Invitation for Conciliation has been  consented to under sub clause 5.4.2.1, 
the same shall be referred to the Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts 
(CCIE) within 30 days.  
5.4.2.2.2. Conciliation Committees of Independent Experts (CCIE) have been constituted 
and notified by MoP for settlement of disputes arising in the Contract. There are 
three CCIEs, as specified in Special Conditions of Contract.  
5.4.2.2.3. The Buyer may select three CCIEs, in priority order, from the list of CCIEs 
enclosed with the Special Conditions of Contract, for finalization by Central 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
52 
 
Electricity Authority (CEA).  
5.4.2.2.4. There shall not be any conflict of interest for the members of the CCIE due to 
their past assignments. Individuals CCIE members shall submit an undertaking in 
this regard to the Owner, prior to appointm ent. It shall be ensured that they have 
not been engaged for providing any services to any of the parties i.e. either Owner 
or the Buyer in the last five  years. An Undertaking in this regard, shall also be 
furnished by the Buyer for the purpose of avoiding any conflict of interest.  
5.4.2.3. Proceedings before CCIE:  
5.4.2.3.1. The procedure of CCIE shall not be trea ted as alternate arbitration proceedings 
where both parties come with Statement of  claims / defence, arguments / counter 
arguments, rejoinders, written submissions et c., aided by their respective lawyers.  
5.4.2.3.2. The parties shall be brief and to the poin t before the Committee with regard to 
their respective stance and view the exercise in the spirit of conciliation/settlement.  
5.4.2.3.3. The possibility of non-availability of any one of the members of CCIE in any 
proceedings cannot be ruled out. As such , the Committee comprising the other two 
members shall be competent to proceed in the matter. The proceedings of the 
Committee shall not be vitiated if one of  the three members of CCIE is not present 
in the deliberations of the Committee. When the parties sign the settlement 
agreement, at least two members of CCI E shall authenticate the same. Such 
conciliation proceedings shall be considered  valid and the settlement agreement will 
be binding on the parties.  
5.4.2.3.4. The parties shall be represented by their in house employees. No party shall be 
allowed to bring any advocate or outside consultant / advisor / agent to contest on 
their behalf. Ex-officers of OWNER who have handled the subject matter in any 
capacity shall not be allowed to attend and present the case before CCIE on behalf 
of buyer. However, ex-employees of parties may represent their respective 
organizations. 
 
 
5.4.2.3.5. The Conciliation proceedings shall be completed in each case through 5 sittings 
in a period of not more than three months from the date the reference made to the 
CCIE. In exceptional cases, if any dispute so merits, the time period may be 
extended at the discretion of Conciliation  Committee (with reasons to be recorded 
in writing), for a further period of three months.  
5.4.2.3.6. The CCIE shall hold day to day sitting at a suitable place (preferably the 
headquarter of the Owner or New Delhi) and may hold as many sittings every month 
as it deems appropriate keeping in view the volume of work.  
5.4.2.4. Fees and Facilities to th e Members of the CCIE  
Each member of CCIE would be paid a sum of INR 50,000 /- as sitting fee per sitting. In 
addition, INR 5,000 /- per sitting will be paid for local transport charges for each 
day of proceeding.  
In case, a particular dispute requires more than 5 sittings, the same may be held at the 
discretion of the CCIE but with a cap on payment of fee for 5 sittings only. The local 
transport charges shall, however, be paid as provided for each day of sitting beyond 
the 5 sittings.  
All expenditure incurred on the conciliation proceedings including payment of fees to the 
Conciliators, office space, logistic, secretarial assistance and other incidental 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
53 
 
expenses etc. shall be borne by the Owner initially. Thereafter it shall be shared 
equally by both parties on completi on of the conciliation process.  
5.4.2.5. The Parties shall maintain the account of expenditure and present to the other for 
the purpose of sharing on conclu sion of the CCIE proceedings.  
 The Conciliation process shall be conducted under Part III of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996.  
 In case of failure of the conciliation process at the level of the Conciliation 
Committee, the parties may withdraw from conciliation process and take recourse 
to the laid down legal process of Courts. However, the option of Arbitration would 
not be available once the conciliation mechanism through CCIE has been exercised.  
 In the event of the conciliation proceedings being successful, the parties to the 
dispute would sign the written settlement agreement and the conciliators would 
authenticate the same. Such settlement agreement would then be binding on the 
parties in terms of Section 73 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.  
 After successful conclusion of proceedings , the Parties to the conciliation process, 
have to undertake and complete all necessary actions for implementation of the 
terms of settlement within a period of 30 days from execution of settlement 
agreement, unless a differen t timeline not exceeding 60 days is agreed upon in 
settlement agreement. All pending claims of parties, in connection with the dispute, 
before any other legal forum are to be withdrawn within the said 30 days in 
pursuance of the settlement agreement.  
5.4.2.6. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, 
the Conciliator and the parties shall keep co nfidential all matters relating to the 
Conciliation proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to the settlement 
agreement, except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of implementation 
and enforcement. 
 
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral or judicial proceedings, 
whether or not such proceedings relate to the dispute that is the subject of the 
Conciliation proceedings,—  a. views expressed or suggestions made by the other 
party in respect of a possible settlement of the dispute;  
 b. admissions made by the other party in the course of the Conciliation proceedings;  
 c. proposals made by the Conciliator; and  
 d. the fact that the other party had indicate d his willingness to accept a proposal 
for settlement made by the Conciliator.  
5.5. Arbitration  
5.5.1. If the process of mutual consultation and IE (if applicable)and/or Mediation (if 
applicable) and/or ESC fails to arrive at a settlement between the parties and/or 
settlement of dispute through CCIE not ex ercised as mentioned at Sub Clauses 5.1, 
5.2, 5.3, 5.4 above, Owner or the Buyer may, within Thirty (30) days of such failure, 
g i v e  n o t i c e  t o  t h e  o t h e r  p a r t y ,  o f  i ts intention to commence arbitration, as 
hereinafter provided, as to the matter in dispute, and no arbitration in respect of 
this matter may be commenced unless such notice is given. The mechanism of 
settling the disputes through arbitration shall be applicable only in cases where the 
disputed amount (i.e. Claim/ Counter claim,  whichever is higher, excluding interest) 
does not exceed INR 25 crores.  
 If the claim / counter claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
54 
 
rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the 
claim in Indian Rupee  
 In case the disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is higher, excluding 
interest) exceeds INR 25 Cror es, the parties shall be with in their rights to take 
recourse to remedies as may be available to them under the applicable laws other 
than Arbitration after prior intimation to the other party. There shall be no 
arbitration where the disputed amount (Claim / counter claim, whichever is higher) 
is only up to INR 5 lakhs.  
 The parties at the time of invocation of arbitration shall submit all the details of the 
claims and the counter-claims includin g the Heads/Sub-heads of the Claims / 
Counter-Claims and the documents relied upon by the parties for their respective 
claims and counter-claims. The parties shall not file any documents / details of the 
claims and counter-claims thereafter.  
 The claims and the counter claims raised by  the parties at the ti me of invocation of 
the arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties and no further change shall 
be allowed in the same at any stage during arbitration under any circumstances 
whatsoever.  
 The parties to the contract shall invoke ar bitration within Six months from the date 
of completion of the Faciliti es under the contract or the termination of the contract 
as the case may be and the parties shall not invoke arbitration later on after expiry 
of the said period of six months.  
 In case, no claim is filed within this peri od of six months, it shall be presumed that 
there is no claim. Any claim filed after th e aforesaid period of six months shall not 
be entertained.  
5.5.2. Any dispute in respect of which a notice of intention to commence arbitration has 
been given, in accordance with Sub Clau se 5.5.1, shall be finally settled by 
arbitration. 
 
5.5.3. It is agreed between the parties that the Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted 
as per the provisions of Fast Track Proced ure as provided under The Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996, as amended from time to time.  
 Any dispute raised by a party to arbitration shall be adjudicated by a Sole Arbitrator 
appointed by mutual consent from amon g the List of empanelled Arbitrators 
maintained by OWNER, in the following manner:  
 (a) A party willing to commence arbitratio n proceeding shall invoke Arbitration 
Clause by giving notice to the other party.  
 (b) OWNER, shall within 30 days from the receipt of such notice shall send a panel 
of at least four arbitrators from among its empanelled arbitrators to the Buyer for 
short listing two among them for such appo intment, within 15 days from the date 
of receipt of the Panel of Arbitrators from OWNER.  
 (c) CMD / Chairman of Owner shall appoint the sole arbitrator from among the two 
names short listed by the Buyer, within 15 days from the receipt of such nomination. 
Notice to the Parties of the constitution of  the arbitral tribunal shall be issued by 
OWNER.  
 In case, the buyer fails to inform its shortlisted names for appointment of sole 
arbitrator from the panel of at least fo ur arbitrators sent by the Owner or no 
response is received from the buyer, within 15 days from the date of receipt of the 
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
55 
 
Panel of Arbitrators from OWNER, CMD/C Chairman of Owner shall appoint the sole 
arbitrator from among the four names sent to the buyer earlier.  
 (d) If the Arbitrator so appointed dies, resi gns, becomes incapacitated or withdraws 
for any reason from the proceedings or his mandate is terminated by the Court, it 
shall be lawful for CMD / Chairman of Owner to appoint another person in his place 
in the same manner as aforesaid. Such pe rson shall proceed with the reference from 
the stage where his predecessor had left.  
 (e) Arbitrator shall be paid fees as per the Fee Schedule (presently Fourth Schedule) 
provided in ‘The Arbitration and Conciliat ion Act, 1996’ as amended from time to 
time. If the claim/ counter clai m is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange 
rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the 
claim in Indian Rupee which may be used for determining the arbitration fee.  
 (f) If after commencement of the Arbitration pr oceedings, the parties agree to settle 
the dispute mutually or refer the dispute to  mediation or Conciliation, the arbitrator 
shall put the proceedings in abeyance until such period as requested by the parties. 
Where the proceedings are put in abeyance or terminated on account of mutual 
settlement of dispute by the parties, the fees payable to the arbitrator shall be 
determined as under:  
 (i) 40% of the fees if the Pleadings are complete.  
 (ii) 60% of the fees if the Hearing has commenced.  
 (iii) 80% of the fees if the Hearing is co ncluded but the Award is yet to be passed.  
 (g) Each party shall pay its share of arbitrator’s fees in stages as under or as per 
the directions of Arbitrator:  
 (i) 40 % of the fees on Completion of Pleadings.  
 (ii) 40% of the fees on Conc lusion of the Final Hearing.  
 (iii) 20% at the time when arbitrator notifies the date of final award.  
 (h) The Claimant shall be responsible for making all necessary arrangements for the 
travel / stay of the Arbitrator including venue of arbitration, hearings. The parties 
shall share the expenses for the same equally. 
 
 
 (i) The Arbitration shall be held at Delhi only.  
 (j) The Arbitrator shall give reasoned and speaking award and it shall be final and 
binding on the parties.  
 (k) Subject to the aforesaid conditions, provis ions of the Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996 and any statutory modifications or re-enactment thereof as amended from 
time to time, shall apply to the arbitr ation proceedings under this clause.  
5.5.4. In the event of any dispute or difference  relating to the interpretation and application 
of the provisions of commercial contract (s) between Central Public Sector 
Enterprises (CPSEs)/ Port Trusts inter se and also between CPSEs and Government 
Departments / Organizations (excluding taxation matters), such disputes or 
difference shall be taken up by either party for resolution through Administrative 
Mechanism for Resolution of CPSEs Disputes (AMRCD) as mentioned in DPE Office 
Memorandum No. 4(1)/2013- DPE(GM)/FTS-1835 dated 22.05.2018 issued by 
Department of Public Enterprises, Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public 
Enterprises, Government of India and its further clarifications, modifications and 
amendments, issued from time to time.  
 
 
Expression Of Interest (EOI) for Allocation of Dry fly Ash to MSEs/Local Users from 
APCPL Jhajjar (3 X 500 MW). 
 
56 
 
 The aforesaid limit of INR 25 crore shall not be applicable and matter may be 
referred to AMRCD irrespective of the amo unt involved in dispute, if the dispute 
could not be resolved through Mutual Consul tation and IE (if applicable) as brought 
out at Sub Clause 5.1 and 5.2 above.  
5.6. Notwithstanding any reference to the Indepe ndent Engineer or Mediation or Conciliation 
or Arbitration herein,  
 (a) the parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations under the 
Contract unless they otherwise agree.  
 (b) the Owner shall pay the Buyer an y monies due to the Buyer.  
 Settlement of Dispute clause cannot be invoked by the Buyer, if the Contract has 
been mutually closed or ‘No Demand Certif icate’ has been furnished by the Buyer or 
any Settlement Agreement has been signed  between the Owner and the Buyer.  
   
 
6. Arbitration  
 As per clause 5.5 at above 
 
Instructions for Online Bid Submission 
 
(Department User may attach this Document as an Annexure in their Tender Document which 
provides complete Instructions for on line Bid submission for Bidders) 
 
The bidders are required to submit soft copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using 
valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are meant to assist the bidders in 
registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements and submitting 
their bids online on the CPP Portal.  
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at: 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app . 
 
REGISTRATION 
1) Bidders are required to enroll on the e -Procurement module of the Central Public 
Procurement Portal (URL: https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app ) by clicking on the link 
“Online bidder Enrollment” on the CPP Portal which is free of charge. 
2) As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username 
and assign a password for their accounts.  
3) Bidders are advised to register their valid email address an d mobile numbers as part of the 
registration process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.  
4) Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature 
Certificate (Class III Certificates with signing ke y usage) issued by any Certifying Authority 
recognized by CCA India (e.g. Sify /  nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile. 
5) Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are 
responsible to ensure that they do not lend their DSC’s to others which may lead to misuse. 
6) Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log -in by entering their user ID / 
password and the password of the DSC / e-Token. 
 
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS  
1) There are various search options built in  the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search 
active tenders by several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, 
Organization Name, Location, Date, Value, etc. There is also an option of advanced search 
for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of search parameters such as 
Organization Name, Form of Contract, Location, Date, Other keywords etc. to search for a 
tender published on the CPP Portal.  
2) Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the 
required documents / tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My 
Tenders’ folder. This would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders throu gh SMS / e-
mail in case there is any corrigendum issued to the tender document.  
3) The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case 
they want to obtain any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.  
 
PREPARATION OF BIDS 
1) Bidder should take into account any corrigendum published on the tender document 
before submitting their bids.  
2) Please go through the tender advertisement and the tender document carefully to 
understand the documents required to be submitted as part of the b id. Please note the 
number of covers in which the bid documents have to be submitted, the number of 
documents - including the names and content of each of the document that need to be 
submitted. Any deviations from these may lead to rejection of the bid.  
3) Bidder, in advance, should get ready the bid documents to be submitted as indicated in the 
tender document / schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS / RAR / DWF /JPG 
formats. Bid documents may be scanned with 100 dpi with black and white option  which 
helps in reducing size of the scanned document.    
4) To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents 
which are required to be submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such 
standard documents (e.g. PAN card copy, annual reports, auditor certificates etc.) has been 
provided to the bidders. Bidders can use “My Space” or ‘’Other Important Documents’’ area 
available to them to upload such documents. These documents may be directly submitted 
from the “My Sp ace” area while submitting a bid, and need not be uploaded again and 
again. This will lead to a reduction in the time required for bid submission process. 
Note:  My Documents space is only a repository given to the Bidders to ease the uploading process. 
If Bidder has uploaded his  Documents in My Documents space, this does not automatically 
ensure these Documents being part of Technical Bid. 
 
SUBMISSION OF BIDS 
1) Bidder should log into the site well in advance for bid submission so that they can upload 
the bid in time i.e. on or before the bid submission time. Bidder will be responsible for any 
delay due to other issues. 
2) The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by one as 
indicated in the tender document. 
3) Bidder has to select th e payment option as “offline” to pay the tender fee / EMD as 
applicable and enter details of the instrument.  
4) Bidder should prepare the EMD as per the instructions specified in the tender document. 
The original should be posted/couriered/given in person to  the concerned official, latest by 
the last date of bid submission or as specified in the tender documents. The details of the 
DD/any other accepted instrument, physically sent, should tally with the details available in 
the scanned copy and the data entered during bid submission time. Otherwise the 
uploaded bid will be rejected. 
5) Bidders are requested to note that they should necessarily submit their financial bids in the 
format provided and no other format is acceptable. If the price bid has been give n as a 
standard BoQ format with the tender document, then the same is to be downloaded and to 
be filled by all the bidders. Bidders are required to download the BoQ file, open it and 
complete the white coloured (unprotected) cells with their respective fin ancial quotes and 
other details (such as name of the bidder). No other cells should be changed. Once the 
details have been completed, the bidder should save it and submit it online, without 
changing the filename. If the BoQ file is found to be modified by the bidder, the bid will be 
rejected.  
6) The server time (which is displayed on the bidders’ dashboard) will be considered as the 
standard time for referencing the deadlines for submission of the bids by the bidders, 
opening of bids etc. The bidders should follow this time during bid submission. 
7) All the documents being submitted by the bidders would be encrypted using PKI encryption 
techniques to ensure the secrecy of the data. The data entered cannot be viewed by 
unauthorized persons until the time of bid o pening. The confidentiality of the bids is 
maintained using the secured Socket Layer 128 bit encryption technology. Data storage 
encryption of sensitive fields is done. Any bid document that is uploaded to the server is 
subjected to symmetric encryption us ing a system generated symmetric key. Further this 
key is subjected to asymmetric encryption using buyers/bid opener’s public keys. Overall, 
the uploaded tender documents become readable only after the tender opening by the 
authorized bid openers. 
 
7) The upl oaded tender documents become readable only after the tender opening by the 
authorized bid openers. 
8) Upon the successful and timely submission of bids  (i.e. after Clicking “Freeze Bid 
Submission” in the portal), the portal will give a successful bid submiss ion message & a bid 
summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid 
with all other relevant details.  
9) The bid summary has to be printed and kept as an acknowledgement of the submission of 
the bid. This acknowledgement may be used as an entry pass for any bid opening meetings. 
 
ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS  
1) Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained 
therein should be addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevan t 
contact person indicated in the tender.  
2) Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP 
Portal in general may be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk.  
 
 
**** 