PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
Section I  
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
FOR 
 
 
Name of Work: “Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of Passenger cum 
goods elevators.” 
 
NIT No.: 9900313948 
                          
1.0 PVUNL invites online bids  on “ Single Stage  Two Envelope Bidding basis ” (Envelope-I: Fee & 
Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for aforesaid package-for 
PVUNL Patratu, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of the activities and services mentioned in scope of work and as per 
“Technical Specification/BOQ” for “Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of Passenger cum 
goods elevators.” 
The scope of work  (unless specified otherwise) shall comprise, but not limited to the design, 
engineering, supply, erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s 
works, packing, supply, transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, u nloading, storage, 
equipment erection and commissioning  including associated civil , structural and all associated 
works. Detailed Specifications and Scope of Work are enclosed separately. 
PVUN intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal  
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 
Limited and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT 
Contract Period Completion period shall be 12 
Months 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Estimated Cost of Work in INR INR 1,2420,000.00/- 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction  Not Applicable 
Tender Fee NOT APPLICABLE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMD/Bid Security INR 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh) 
(Exemption NOT ALLOWED) 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
MSE Benefit Being Works Contract, MSE Benefits 
are Not Applicable 
 
 No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on e-
tender portal. 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant t o ITB Clause 15, 
failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a)      Tender Fee: NOT APPLICABLE  
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid an Earnest 
Money Deposit/Bid Security of amount Rs 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh only) 
c)       Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
Any bid not accompanied by Tender fee  and Bid security shall be rejected by the Employer 
as being non-responsive and shall be rejected without being opened. 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid securi ty in a Separate sealed envelope (only in case 
where bid security is submitted through BG) shall be rejected by the employer as being non -
responsive and shall not be opened. In case, the bid Security is submitted through electronic fund 
transfer (EFT)/onli ne payment, Bidder to submit the proof of e -payment of bid security either in 
separate sealed envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. 
 
Option for Online payment of EMD and tender fee is not enabled at GepNIC/e tender portal for 
PVUN. However, EFT can be done to PVUN account and details can be uploaded in GEPNIC 
Portal:  
 
For EMD and Tender Fee through EFT Transfer to PVUN Account,  the payment shall in done 
separately in the SBI Account of Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd: Details are as follows:  
  
Name of Account Holder : PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LTD  
Bank Account No.              : 35397838621  
Bank Name                         : STATE BANK OF INDIA   
Branch                                 :  PATRATU (Branch Code: 02992),  
Bank Address                     :  PATRATU THERMAL POWER STATION PATRATU,   
                                              DIST: RAMGARH, JHARKHAND, PIN-829119.                          
IFSC Code                      :  SBIN0002992  
Bidders are requested to carry out two separate transactions for EMD and Tender Fee.  
For details please refer Clause 14, 15 & 16 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through onli ne payment of bid security amount applicable for 
this tender OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the tender 
provisions. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank guarantee and 
also ensure t hat original physical copy of the bank guarante e reaches at the address mentioned 
above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide 
GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
5.1 Technical Criteria : The bidder who wishes to participat e in the bidding shall 
meet the Qualifying requirements stipulated here under: 
 
 
5.1.1 
 
(a)The Bidder should have manufactured & supplied Lift of capacity 1088 kg or 
above. 
 
OR 
 
b) The Bidder should be an Authorized representative of the manufacturer who 
meets the requirement of 5.1.1 (a) above, Authorized representative should be 
specifically authorized by the manufacturer for participating in this bid.  
 
 
AND 
 
c) The Bidder should have Supplied , Installed / got  Installed, and Commiss ioned / 
got Commissioned at least one (01) no. of “Goods or Passenger or Passenger -cum-
Goods lifts”, with minimum capacity of 1088 kg and the lift should have been in 
operation for at least one (01) year as on the date of Techno -commercial bid 
opening. 
 
The Bidder should have  executed the order(s) of “Supply and Installation of Goods 
or Passenger or Passenger-cum-Goods lifts’, within preceding seven (07) years prior 
to date of Techno-commercial bid opening in any of the following manner: 
 
One (1) order having executed value not less than Rs. 99.36 lakhs 
OR 
Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 62.10 lakhs each 
OR 
Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 49.68 lakhs each 
 
 
 Notes for clause 5.1 above: 
 
1. The word “ Executed” mentioned above means t hat the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed / closed. 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid openi ng duly certified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub -contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor  is duly certified by 
owner specifying the scope of work  executed by the sub -contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements. 
4. For arriving  at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only 
shall be considered. In case of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should 
provide the break up of basic value and taxes. 
5. In case, bidder has executed ref erence work under two orders one for supply 
and one for services separately for the same installation, combined value of both 
the orders shall be considered as a single order for the purpose of evaluation. 
6. In case, bidder must submit Latest annual report OR NSIC/SSI/MSME 
registration certificate / BIS license /ISO certificate/ any other statutory document 
as a proof of being manufacturer as per QR. 
         
5.2 Financial Criteria 
 
5.2.1 
 
 
 
 
5.2.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2.4 
 
 
The average annual turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial years 
as on the last date of Techno -Commercial bid opening should not be less than INR 
Rs. 1,24,20,000.00(INR One crore twenty-four lakhs twenty thousand only). 
 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Compan y as 
on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would 
be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking 
from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, 
as per the format enclosed in the Techno Commercial bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award.  
 
b)   The Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year, of the 
date of Techno-commercial Bid opening, shall not be less than 100% of the bidders 
paid up share capital. In case the Bidder meets the requirement of  Net Worth based 
on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary 
(ies) of the Holding company wherever applicable, the Net Worth of the bidder and 
its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the H olding 
company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 75% of 
their respective paid up share capitals. Net worth in combined manner shall be 
calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = [(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)] x 100 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75 % of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
(c)    
In In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -
alone entity basis, the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
 
 
 
 i)  Copies of the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company. 
  
 ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of  the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the las t financial year as on the date of Techno -
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable. In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a pract icing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of 
the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening 
and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
 Notes for Financial Criteria: 
 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserves means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account 
but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back 
of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed 
to them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
(iv) For Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (07) 
days prior to the date of techno- commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
 
 
6 ‘Class-I local suppliers’/ “Class-I local suppliers and Class -II local suppliers ’’ only are eligible 
to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents  / Public Procurement (Preference 
to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The 
bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding document s in this regard 
before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class -I Local Supplier ( Minimum Local 
Content 50%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form. 
 
By accepting the MLC provision of GTE, it will be considered that: - 
 
“Bidder is 'Class -I local supplier’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in  
Annexure-I to BDS. 
 
Also supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violation of  
‘Public Procurement (Preference to M ake In India), Order 2017’ (PPP -MII Order) dated  
15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion  
of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case  of false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be trea ted as false 
declaration and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard  
before submission of their bids. 
 
7 Any ‘Bidder from a country whi ch shares a land  border with India’, as specified  in the  Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the  Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement  of registration will not apply to bidders from tho se countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended  lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
8 PVUN reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids /NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9 Issuance of bid documents to any Bi dder shall not construe that such bidder is conside red to be 
qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
10 PVUNL reserves the right to ame nd any bid/tender conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS 
published in the portal AT ANY TIME. PVUNL also reserves the right to extend/change the bidding schedule 
through publishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situation demands so AT AN Y TIME. 
The corrigendum as decided by PVUNL and deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions 
therein. This prevails over the relevant  provisions elsewhere in  the bid document . The 
corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal wil l be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed 
that the information contained therein will have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders are 
advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendum, if any. 
 
11 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
12 The bid documents consist of the following: 
 
Section 
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
VI Technical Specifications/Scope of Work, Drawings and Quality Plans 
etc. 
VII Forms and Procedures 
 
 
13 IMPORTANT NOTES: 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET (ATTACHED separately for the package as bid do cument) 
is to be filled up properly for the stipula ted QR parameters and to be submitted in the bid at 
appropriate file/folder provided for the purpose. 
 
b) LATEST PROVISIONS FOR “AUTHENTICATION OF VERACITY OF DOCUMENTS 
SUBMITTED BY THE BIDDER IN SUPPORT OF Q UALIFYING REQUIREMENT” HAS 
BEEN INCORPORATED IN CLAUSE NO 7 OF BID DATA SHEET (SECTION III -BDS). 
AUTHENTICATED DOCUMENTS (AS APPLICABLE- FROM INDEPENDENT STATUTORY 
AUDITOR OF BIDDER/ OR SPECIFIED THIRD -PARTY INSPECTION AGENCY (TPIA)) IN 
LINE WITH THE SAID PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED. 
 
b) UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute  of Chartered  Accountant of India (ICAI). It is  mandatory to mention UDIN 
(Unique Document Identification Number) by the bidders whi le submitting audited financial 
statements, other CA certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette notification dt. 
02.08.2019. 
c) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONED IN Bid Data S heet (Section III- BDS) 
shall amend and/or supplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidders (Section II - ITB). 
Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
d) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section -V, s hall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Co ntract (GCC) Section -IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a 
conflict, the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
 
14. The bidding document is availab le online . A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website
 https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Lim ited. The Bidder would be 
required to register on the website. 
First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. N ote that 1 st time bidders 
can participate in PVUNL Open Tenders without having NTPC/PVUNL’s Vendor Code. 
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
However, users whose email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by 
NTPC/PVUNL/first time users not having been allotted any vend or code by 
NTPC/PVUNL, should send a copy of the registration details to the e -mail address 
specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following details at least 
three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
 
a) Request in the letter head of the Company. 
b) Copy of Registration Certificate/Certificate of Incorporation (as applicable) 
c) Address Proof 
d) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
e) Email ID and Contact No. 
f) Name and Designation of the contact person. 
g) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank. 
The above details shall be mandatory for EMD regularization/reconciliation and subsequent 
refund/conversion (as/if applicable).  
 
15  All references to the “Policy for Withholding & Banning of Business Dealings” appearing 
anywhere in the Standard Bidding Documents shall be replaced with “Policy for Debarment from 
Business Dealings”. 
 
16 Address for communication: 
 
AGM (C&M), 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED, 
P.O - PTPS, Distt: Ramgarh, Jharkhand 
PIN - 829119, 
Mobile: 9431600888 / 9471002992 
Emails: kspratap@ntpc.co.in/sudebhalder@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.pvunl.co.in 
or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
17 Registered Office 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U40300DL2015GOI286533 
Website: www.pvunl.co.in 
 
 
 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
Section I  
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
FOR 
 
 
Name of Work: “Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of Passenger cum 
goods elevators.” 
 
NIT No.: 9900313948 
                          
1.0 PVUNL invites online bids  on “ Single Stage  Two Envelope Bidding basis ” (Envelope-I: Fee & 
Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for aforesaid package-for 
PVUNL Patratu, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of the activities and services mentioned in scope of work and as per 
“Technical Specification/BOQ” for “Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of Passenger cum 
goods elevators.” 
The scope of work  (unless specified otherwise) shall comprise, but not limited to the design, 
engineering, supply, erection, testing and inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s 
works, packing, supply, transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, u nloading, storage, 
equipment erection and commissioning  including associated civil , structural and all associated 
works. Detailed Specifications and Scope of Work are enclosed separately. 
PVUN intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal  
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 
Limited and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT 
Contract Period Completion period shall be 12 
Months 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Estimated Cost of Work in INR INR 1,2420,000.00/- 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction  Not Applicable 
Tender Fee NOT APPLICABLE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMD/Bid Security INR 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh) 
(Exemption NOT ALLOWED) 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
MSE Benefit Being Works Contract, MSE Benefits 
are Not Applicable 
 
 
4.0  Address for communication: 
 
AGM (C&M), 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED, 
P.O - PTPS, Distt: Ramgarh, Jharkhand 
PIN - 829119, 
Mobile: 9431600888 / 9471002992 
Emails: kspratap@ntpc.co.in/sudebhalder@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.pvunl.co.in 
or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
5.0  Registered Office 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U40300DL2015GOI286533 
Website: www.pvunl.co.in 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 13-Jun-2026 06:08 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited||Patratu Super Thermal Power Project
Tender Reference Number PVUNL/Patratu/9900313948
Tender ID 2026_PVUNL_109230_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Offline Is Multi Currency Allowed For BOQ No
Is Multi Currency Allowed
For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Offline S.No Instrument Type
1 DD
2 BG
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf Scanned copy of
EMD
.pdf
Declaration- on
Class-1 Local
Supplier, with all
Requisite
details.
.pdf Power of
Attorney
.pdf Nil Deviation
Certificate
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Technical Details
(Other than QR
Documents).
.pdf
QR Documents
(Certified by
Independent
Statutory
Auditor / TPIA,
as applicable)
.pdf
Undertaking
from
Independent
Statutory
Auditor / TPIA,
(as applicable)
.pdf
Attachment-3
(Qualification
Data Sheet),
(along with
CEO/CFO
Certificate, if
required).
3 Finance .xls Price Bid
(Including GST)
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Patratu Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam Limited
EMD Payable At Ranchi
BG Required No
Minimum Direct EMD
Payment in ₹
0.00
 

Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of Passenger cum Goods Elevators.
Work Description Open Tender
Pre Qualification Details As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
No 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 365 
Location Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam
PATRATU UTILITY BUILD
Pincode 829119 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting Address NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Patratu Vidyut
Utpadan Nigam
Should Allow NDA Tender No Allow Preferential Bidder No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 13-Jun-2026 06:30 PM Bid Opening Date 04-Jul-2026 04:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start Date 13-Jun-2026 06:30 PM Document Download / Sale End Date 02-Jul-2026 04:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 13-Jun-2026 06:30 PM Clarification End Date 17-Jun-2026 06:30 PM 
Bid Submission Start Date 13-Jun-2026 06:30 PM Bid Submission End Date 02-Jul-2026 04:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT Document
S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT for Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of
Passenger cum Goods Elevators. 672.23
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 BOQ BOQ_112462.xls 7.SECTION VII-BOQ-9900313948 377.50
2 Tender Documents Complete-Bid-Documents-9900313948.rar Complete-Bid-Documents-
9900313948 22096.50
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Description Expected
Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the LOCAL
CONTENT included in the PACKAGE FOR COMPLETE SCOPE
OF WORK meets the MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT
requirements of the Tender.
MLC DECLARATION FOR SERVICES Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC FRAUD PREVENTION Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business
Dealing Policy of NTPC BANNING POLICY DECLARATION Yes Yes
5.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per tender
documents on Restrictions on procurement from a Bidder
of a country which shares a land border with India
LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying Requirements QR COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid
documents NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATION Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. vkbarnwal@ntpc.co.in VINAY KUMAR BARNWAL VINAY KUMAR BARNWAL
2. ajaypal@ntpc.co.in Ajay Pal AJAY PAL
3. kspratap@ntpc.co.in KUMAR SHAILENDRA PRATAP K SHAILENDRA PRATAP
4. shalinibeck@ntpc.co.in Shalini Beck SHALINI BECK
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid status Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in Public
Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal places 2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Not Applicable Being Works Contract
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name DGM CNM PVUNL
Address Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam PATRATU UTILITY BUILDING, PO JHARKHAND 829119
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By KUMAR SHAILENDRA PRATAP
Designation DGM (CnM)
Created Date 13-Jun-2026 04:34 PM
 