Page 1 of 4  
                                                                                            
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
   AWRS SYSTEM PACKAGE  
FOR  
NORTH KARANPURA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT STAGE-I (3X660MW) 
 
 
       BID DOCUMENT NO.: CS-4410-132-9 
 
LOCATED AT 
DISTRICT CHATRA, STATE OF JHARKHAND, INDIA, 
 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
  
IFB No.: CS-4410-132-9           Date: 12.06.2026 
Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_109103_1                   
 
A. NTPC invites on-line bids for AWRS System Package for North Karanpura Super Thermal 
Power Project Stage-I (3X660 MW),  at NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at website- 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope-I: 
Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid ) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid 
package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
B. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of Ash Water Recirculation System (AWRS) system package for NKSTPP 
Stage-I (3X660MW) includes Design, Engineering, Supply, Erectio n, and Testing & 
Commissioning of complete Ash water recirculation system, 11 kV  overhead line, HT & 
LT Switchgear including all Civil, Electrical and Control & Ins trumentation works etc. as 
specified in technical specifications. 
 
Salient Features of major system & equipment are as follows: 
 
A) AWRS SYSTEM: 
 
1) The package comprises a fully  functional AWRS system (with t wo pump houses) from 
the existing ash dyke to the Ash Water Sump Tank inside the plant. The seepage water 
system and dust suppression system will be integrated with the current package. 
 
2) The major scope of work includes the construction of pump ho uses (AWRS and 
seepage water) with sumps, supply,  erection, and commissioning of various pumps, 
erection of the AWRS pipeline from the dyke to the plant end along with pedestals, pipe 
Page 2 of 4  
culverts, etc. The dust suppressi on pipelines shall be routed along the dyke periphery. 
3) Air conditioning, Ventilation & Fire-detection and alarm Sys tem. 
4) The works also include laying an 11 kV line from the miscell aneous switchgear to the 
dyke end. All mechanical, electrical, civil, and C&I works shall be part of the package. 
 
B) ELECTRICAL WORKS:  
 
All associated Electrical drives & other Electrical works for the package as below: 
 
1) 11 kV overhead line 
2) HT & LT SWGR 
3) HT & LT cables and control cables 
4) Cabling, lighting, Earthing & Lightning protection 
5) Battery and Battery charger. 
 
C) C&I WORKS:  
 
1) Measuring instruments, Motorized actuators, Instrumentation cables & PCP for AWRS, 
etc. PLC based control system along with UPS power supply system is also part of C&I 
system. 
 
D) Associated Civil, Structural & Architectural Works for vario us Equipment/Systems. 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
C. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity. 
 
D.  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions ar e given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal  of NIC at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:  
 
Issue of IFB 12.06.2026 
Bidding Document No CS-4410-132-9 
Cost of Bidding Document               NIL 
Documents Download Date and Time From 13.06.2026 onwards 
Last date for receipt of queries 26.06.2026  
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
Up to 1500 Hrs (IST) on 09.07.2026 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I 
(Techno-Commercial bid) 
10.07.2026 at 1530 Hrs (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II 
(Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno-Commercial Bid. 
 
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be entertained by 
the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC portal 
of NTPC. 
 
Page 3 of 4  
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 50,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Fifty Lakh only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS  E-BG/ 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE CO PY 
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is in vited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll th emselves on the website https ://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is m andatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidder s should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also  has the user manuals 
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall b e submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
 
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.  
    
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in thi s tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received  (if any) from Class-II 
Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, wi ll be eligible to bid only if 
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentio ned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Governm ent of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
Page 4 of 4  
 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (CS) / AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: 0091-120- 4946530/4946526 
E-mail: satrajitkumar@ntpc.co.in /riteshkumar@ntpc.co.in  
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
Appendix-I to IFB
APPROVED QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR AWRS SYSTEM PACKAGE
FOR NKSTPP STAGE-I (3 X660MW) 
In addition to the satisfactory fulfillment of the requirements stipulated under 
section ITB (Instructions to Bidder), the following shall also apply: 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
1.1   The bidder should have engineered, fabricated/supplied, erected and tested at 
least one (1) piping system of minimum 200 MT consisting of steel pipes of size 
250 NB  or above, complete with valves and fittings, which should have been 
fabricated at site in case Bidder’s proposal envisages site fabrication. The 
aforesaid piping system should have been in successful operation for at least one 
(1) year prior to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.
 NOTES for clause no. 1.0 above 
The conversion of Nominal Diameter to weight in kg per meter of pipe length 
shall be carried out in accordance with Indian Standard IS 3589 (latest revision). 
2.0 Financial Criteria: 
 2.1  The average annual turnover of the Bidder in the preceding three (3) financial years 
   as on the date of Techno -Commercial Bid opening,  should not be less than 
₹ 24 Crores (Indian Rupees Twenty Four Crores only) or in equivalent foreign 
currency. 
 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria 
stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the 
stipulated turnover requirements, provided that the Net worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, 
the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its techno -commercial bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding 
Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the 
Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net Worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the Bidder’s paid -
up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the 
Bidder does not meet the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet  the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and / or 
Holding Company and / or Subsidiaries of its Holding Companies wherever 
applicable, In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and / or Holding Company and / or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) 
Appendix-I to IFB 
of their total paid up share capital. However, individually their Net worth should  
not be less than 75% (seventy -five percent) of their respective paid -up share 
capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be    calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined)=(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75% of 
the respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share 
capitals 
2. 3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the 
following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the
Bidder along with copies of the audited consolidated financial
statements of the Holding Company.
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the
format enclosed with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the consolidated
financial statement of the Holding Company.
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of 
Techno-Commercial Bid opening are not available, the financial results certified 
by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered 
for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating 
that the financial results of the company are under audit as on the date of 
Techno-Commercial Bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
NOTES for clause no’s 2.0 above 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves.
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
Appendix-I to IFB 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed
to them as per Companies Act 2013.
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno -Commercial Bid opening shall be
used.
NOTE for clauses 1.0 and 2.0 
For the purposes of this tender ,  any reference to the date of Techno-commercial bid
opening for qualifying requirements wherever mentioned in the qualifying requirements, 
shall be taken as the date of Techno -commercial bid opening specified in the initial 
published NIT/IFB.  