1 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Invites 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
for exploring the vendor base for supply and installation of Surface 
Hydrokinetic Turbine technology at CW Channel of NTPC Power Plant

2 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
DOCUMENTS OF EOI 
 
This EOI document comprises the following sections: 
 
(i) Section I : EOI Information 
(ii) Section II : Introduction 
(iii) Section III : Instructions to the Applicants 
(iv) Section IV : Consideration of Response 
(v) Section V : Application Form and Annexures 
3 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - I 
 
 
EOI Information 
4 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
 
EOI No.: NTPC/PEM/EOI/SurfaceHKT/2025-26 Date: 07.06.2026 
 
NTPC is Inviting an Expression of INTEREST (EOI) for exploring the vendor base 
for supply and installation of Surface Hydrokinetic Turbine technology at CW 
Channel of NTPC Power Plant in India 
 
1. NTPC Limited (A Government of India Enterprise) intends to explore the vendor 
base for supply and installation of Surface Hydrokinetic Turbine technology 
at CW Channel of NTPC power plant in India. In this regard, NTPC Limited invites 
Expression of Interest (EOI) from any Indian Company. ( Hereinafter called 
APPLICANT). 
 
Note: This EOI is to assess prospects of vendor base for supply and 
installation of Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology . After identifying 
the APPLICANTs through EOI who are interested in setting up Surface Hydro 
Kinetic Turbine and fulfilling all technical requirements , vendor base shall 
be prepared. The applicant may be required to set-up a pilot project at any 
one station of NTPC as per mutual discussions provided that applicant has 
any reference of pilot installation of their technology in any other 
industry/location. 
 
2. DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
a. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost 
from www.ntpctender.com & https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
b. Last date for submission of EOI : 10.07.2026 
 
c. Response Validity                                                   : 2 months from Last Date of 
EOI Submission                                                         EOI submission 
5 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
3. NTPC encourages submission of EOI in soft copy. For consideration of EOI, 
APPLICANTs are required to e-mail softcopy of EOI, completed in all respect, 
through e- mail mentioned hereunder. If APPLICANTS also wish to submit hard 
copy of the EOI, the same can be submitted either in person or by registered/ 
speed post till the last date of submission of EOI to the following address: - 
 
To: Sr Manager (PE-Mechanical/TG & System) 
Email: apurva@ntpc.co.in 
Project Engineering (Mechanical/TG & System), 4th Floor 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
4. NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, cancel/withdraw 
the EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, AP- 
PLICANT shall not have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC bears no 
responsibility or liability of any kind in reference to the EOI. 
6 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - II 
 
 
Introduction 
7 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
i. NTPC Limited is a Govt. of India Enterprise. NTPC group produces electricity 
through its cluster of gas, coal, hydro and RE based power stations of more than 
90 GW capacity spanning across the country. 
 
ii. NTPC Ltd., in keeping focus on evolving power market, intends to explore the 
vendor base for supply and installation of Surface Hydrokinetic Turbine technology, 
who are fulfilling all requirements. 
 
iii. Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology is an innovative renewable energy 
solution that generates electricity from the kinetic energy of flowing water bodies 
such as rivers, canals, and tidal streams without the need for large dams or 
significant water storage structures. Unlike conventional hydropower plants, 
Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology utilize the natural flow velocity of water 
at or near the surface to rotate turbine blades and produce power. 
 
iv. Due to its modular design, it is gaining attention as an alternative clean energy 
source that supports energy security and reduction of carbon emissions. With 
increasing focus on renewable energy and green technologies, Surface hydro 
kinetic Turbine technology offers significant potential for harnessing untapped 
hydrokinetic resources efficiently and sustainably. 
 
v. Based on response in EOI, NTPC shall identify the vendor base for supply and 
installation of Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology. The applicant may be 
required to set-up a pilot project at any one station of NTPC as per mutual 
discussions provided that applicant has any reference of pilot installation of their 
technology in any other industry/location. 
8 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
2. INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EoI) 
 
NTPC is exploring Surface Hydrokinetic Turbine technology for deployment in 
Cooling Water (CW) channels to harness the kinetic energy of circulating water. 
Such installations can generate clean electricity using existing infrastructure with 
minimal environmental impact, supporting NTPC's sustainability objectives 
 
i. CW channels have continuous and predictable water flow, which is one of the 
key requirements for hydrokinetic power generation. Hydrokinetic systems are 
considered suitable for canals, industrial water channels, which are hydraulically 
similar to many NTPC CW channels. 
 
ii. The purpose of this EOI is to explore the suitable vendor base for supply and 
installation of Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology at CW Channel of NTPC 
Power Plant in India, who are fulfilling all requirements. 
 
iii. Based on the responses in the EOI and further discussions with interested 
parties, NTPC shall prepare the vendor base for supply and installation of 
Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology . The applicant may be required to set-
up a pilot project at any one station of NTPC as per mutual discussions provided 
that applicant has any reference of pilot installation of their technology in any 
other industry/location. 
 
 
The Applicants may express their interest in respect of their offerings along with 
other inputs as indicated in relevant Annexures/formats. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - III 
 
 
Instructions to the Applicants 
10 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
1. The Applicants should note that: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EOI or any query/clarifications/correspondences 
shall be in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, Application Form and Annexures given in Section-V 
shall be duly filled and sent to NTPC by the APPLICANT in soft copy. 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section-I and Section-II thoroughly before filling 
and submitting the application form and annexures in Section-V. 
 
d. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two persons, with 
complete address, phone number and email id. 
 
e. NTPC Ltd. may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents 
and/ or seek clarifications from the Applicant(s) after the Deadline for submission 
of response, inter alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities 
in their responses. 
 
2. Enquiries and clarifications 
 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via email:  
 
To:      apurva@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
 
3. Corrigendum 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EOIs, NTPC may, for any 
reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by 
an Applicant, modify the EOI document. The amendment will be posted on the 
website and will be binding on the Applicants and the Applicant will give due 
consideration to the same, while they submit their EOIs, and would invariably 
enclose documents/ information, as required, on account of the amendment, as a 
part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its discretion, extend the deadline for the 
submission of EOIs. 
 
4. Preparation of the response to EoI 
The application of EOI consists of the following: 
(a) Annexure 2, 3 & 4 of Section-V 
11 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
5. Validity of the responses 
 
The Applicant shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to two (2) 
months after the response Deadline (“Response Validity”). NTPC reserve the right 
to reject any response, which does not meet the aforementioned validity 
requirement. 
 
NTPC may solicit the Applicant’s consent for an extension of the period of validity 
of the response. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing. In 
the event any Applicant refuses to extend its response validity as requested by 
NTPC, NTPC shall terminate processing of such Applicant’s responses. An 
Applicant accepting NTPC request for validity extension shall not be permitted to 
modify its response. 
 
6. Submission of the response to EoI 
 
The responses to the EoI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail format 
To: apurva@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
 
Ref. EoI No. 
Dated 
 
Submitted to: 
Name, designation & address of the concerned officer of NTPC 
To: Sr Manager (PE-Mechanical/TG & System) 
Email: apurva@ntpc.co.in 
Project Engineering (Mechanical/TG & System), 4th Floor 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
 
Submitted by: 
Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized 
signatory in whose favour the Power of Attorney is issued. 
 
The responses to the EOI should be submitted within the Deadline at the address 
provided in the Section-I of this EOI. 
7. Costs and expenses towards response to EOI 
 
The Applicants shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation 
of the response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution of the 
documents related with this EOI, NTPC shall not be responsible in any way for 
such costs, regardless of the conduct or outcome of this short-listing/ selection 
process. 
12 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
8. Confidentiality 
 
The Applicants undertake to hold in confidence this EOI and any document related 
or pursuant to this EOI and not to disclose the terms and conditions of the 
transaction contemplated hereby to third parties, except: 
 
(a) To their professional advisors; 
 
(b) To their officers, contractors, employees, agents or representatives, financiers, 
who need to have access to such information for the proper performance of their 
activities; 
 
(c) Disclosures required under applicable Law, without the prior written consent of the 
other parties of the concerned agreements. 
 
Provided that the Applicant(s) agrees and acknowledges that NTPC may at any 
time, disclose the terms and conditions of this EOI and any document related or 
pursuant to this EOI to any person, to the extent stipulated under the applicable 
Law. 
 
9. Disclaimer 
 
(a) This Expression of Interest (EOI) has been prepared by NTPC Ltd. for response 
from Indian Company for exploring the vendor base for supply and installation of 
Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology at CW Channel of NTPC power plant in 
India. The applicant may be required to set-up a pilot project at any one station of 
NTPC as per mutual discussions provided that applicant has any reference of pilot 
installation of their technology in any other industry/location. 
 
(b) In submitting an expressed EOI in response to the EOI, the Applicants certify that it 
understands, accepts and agrees to the disclaimers on this page. Nothing contained 
in any other provision of the EOI nor any statements made orally or in writing by 
any person or party shall have the effect of negating or superseding any of the 
disclaimers set forth herewith. 
13 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-IV 
 
 
 
Consideration of Response 
14 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
RESPONSIVENESS/EVALUATION METHODOLOGY 
 
1. Responsiveness check 
 
The responses submitted by Applicants shall be scrutinized to establish the 
technical requirement for Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine technology. Responses 
shall be deemed non-responsive for following reasons: 
 
a. Responses that are incomplete, i.e. not accompanied by any of the 
applicable formats inter alia covering letter, power of attorney, applicable 
undertakings, provided in more details at annexure in Section-V; 
 
b. Responses not accompanied by Essential Information as prescribed in 
Annexure 3 in Section-V. 
 
c. Responses not signed by authorized signatory and / or stamped in the 
manner indicated in this EOI; 
 
d. Material inconsistencies in the information/ documents submitted by the 
Applicant 
 
e. An Applicant submitting more than one response to this EOI either itself or 
through an affiliate or subsidiary company; 
 
f. Response validity being less than that required as per Clause 5 of section-III 
of this EOI; 
 
g. Response being conditional in nature; 
 
h. Response not received by the response Deadline; 
 
i. Response having Conflict of Interest; 
 
j. Applicant delaying in submission of additional information or clarifications 
sought by NTPC, as applicable; 
 
All response to the EOI that shall meet the responsive check requirements set out 
above in this section of the EOI document shall be considered as responsive. In 
case of non- submission of relevant details as above, the responses may be 
considered as “non-responsive”, at the sole discretion of NTPC and will not be 
considered further. 
15 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-V 
 
 
Application Form & Annexures 
16 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
Annexure-1 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
Date  :    
Place :    
 
To, 
……………………………. 
 
Sub.: (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
Ref.:  EoI No.  , dated  (the “EoI”) 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined 
and understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
We confirm that neither we nor any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate 
Parent Company has submitted response other than this response directly or 
indirectly in response to the aforesaid EOI. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC, as 
amended. In token of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed 
& stamped by us and enclosed to the response. We hereby confirm that the 
provisions of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per provisions and formats of the 
EOI, without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any 
assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision 
made by NTPC in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EOI 
shall be binding on us. We hereby expressly waive any and all claims in 
respect of EOI process. We confirm that there are no litigations or disputes 
against us, which materially affect our ability to participate or function under the 
obligations with regard to EOI. 
17 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats 
in electronic format sent via email to: -------------------- as per the EOI for 
consideration. 
 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of sub- 
mission as stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC, if 
any. 
 
7. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the 
requirements stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and 
understanding. We would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our 
response. 
 
8. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for 
acceptance for a period of two (2) months from the response Deadline. 
 
9. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed “ Non- 
Responsive” as stipulated in Section-IV of this EOI. 
 
10. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
We remain, 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of 
Attorney is issued) 
18 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
 
Annexure-2 
 
INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
 
(Note: Documents in support of meeting the respective requirement shall be sub- 
mitted by the Applicant.) 
1. Name of the Company: 
2. Legal status of the Company: 
3. Brief description of the Company including details of its business 
groups/subsidiaries/ affiliates: 
4. Existing commercial/ demonstration facilities – Locations, Capacity 
5. Date of Incorporation: 
6. Date of Commencement of Business: 
7. Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any: 
 
8. Documents to be enclosed: 
 
Technical Credentials – Relevant Product/System catalogues, Experience 
/Reference List, Copies of Customer Certificates, Engineering strengths, 
collaborations/tie-ups with manufacturer (if applicable), quality accreditations, etc. 
 
9. In case of name change of company or acquirement of any other company, 
supporting document pertaining to this along with the document establishing the 
technological capability details.  
 
10. Any other documents considered relevant. 
 
 
 
 
(Sign & Company Seal) 
Authorized signatory 
19 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
Annexure-3 
 
INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
Essential Information: 
 
A. Whether any Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine has been supplied/ to be supplied? 
Whether same has been Designed/Manufactured by himself, if not then detail of 
company who designed/manufactured Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine. 
 
B. Key characteristics of the Surface Hydro Kinetic Turbine system- 
1. Rated Power Output (kW/MW) 
2. Minimum and Optimum Water Flow Velocity Requirement 
3. Turbine Efficiency at Different Flow Conditions 
4. Type of arrangement: Floating / Fixed mounting arrangement 
5. Operating Water Depth Requirement 
6. Dimensions and Weight of Complete Assembly 
7. Material of Construction 
o Corrosion resistance 
o Suitability for continuous water exposure 
8. Design Life of Equipment 
9. Civil Structure Requirement for Installation 
10. Foundation and Mounting Arrangement Details 
11. Impact on Existing CW Channel Hydraulics 
o Pressure drop 
o Flow obstruction 
o Backwater effect 
12. Electrical System Details 
13. Type of Generator  
14. Protection Systems Provided (Overspeed, Vibration etc.) 
15. Performance Guarantee Parameters 
16. Auxiliary Power Consumption 
17. Maintenance Requirement and Maintenance Frequency 
18. Debris Handling and Anti-Clogging Arrangement 
19. Noise and Vibration Characteristics 
20. Environmental Impact Assessment 
21. Installation Time and Commissioning Schedule 
22. Availability and Reliability Guarantees 
23. Previous Installations and Operational References 
o Previous installation was commercial project/Pilot Project 
o Any set back in previous installation 
20 | Page 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
24. Compliance with Applicable Indian/International Standards 
25. Estimated Annual Energy Generation (BU/MU) 
26. Techno-Economics Details 
28. Suitability for NTPC Cooling Water (CW) Channel Application 
29. Requirement of Shutdown During Installation/Maintenance 
30. Scalability and Modular Expansion Capability 
31. Indigenous Content and Make-in-India Compliance 
32. Intellectual Property / Patent / Licensing Details 
 
 
C. Safety aspects  