 INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
EPC PACKAGE FOR Substation and Transformer Package for SS-2 (Gandhinagar) and 
SS-4 (Campbell Bay)  
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Date: 11.06.2026
Bidding Document No: CS-6402-572-2 
1.0 NTPC Limited on behalf of NTРС Electric Supply Company Ltd. (NESCL) (The 
Employer) invites on-line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: 
Techno-Commercial and Envelope-II: Price) from eligible Bidders for EPC PACKAGE FOR 
Substation and Transformer Package for SS-2 (Gandhinagar) and SS-4 (Campbell Bay) 
as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
Design, engineering, procurement, supply, installation, testing, and commissioning of 
electrical systems for two substations (SS2 and SS4) under the Great Nicobar Island 
transmission infrastructure project. 
Detailed Scope has been specified in the Bidding Document Ref. No.: CS-6402-572-2 
3.0 NESCL (The Employer)  intends to finance the aforesaid Package with a mix of debt 
and equity. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following Bidding Schedule*: 
 Issuance of IFB  11.06.2026 
 Document Download start date  11.06.2026 
 Pre-Bid Conference  03.07.2026 at 1100 hrs. (IST) 
 Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any)**  
 04.07.2026 
 Bid (both Techno- Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
 24.07.2026 up to 1300 hrs. (IST) 
 Date & Time for opening of Envelop- I 
(Techno-Commercial bid) 
 24.07.2026 at 1500 hrs. (IST) 
 Date & Time for opening of Envelop- II 
(Price bid) 
Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding schedule of
the Tender.
IFB No. 2026_NTPC_109156_1
**No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of 
receipt of Queries as specified above. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount of INR 10,00,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Ten Crores only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS 
SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT 
THE PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is Attached as Appendix-I. 
7.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry 
and Internal Trade). The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. Bids received (if any) 
from Class-II Local Supplier or Non-Local Supplier shall be outrightly rejected. 
8.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects.  
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder 
from the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 
3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with 
detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY at  
the e- Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bid Documents and/or submission of Bids shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
12.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer/NTPC reserves the right to 
assess the capabilities and capacity of the Bidder / its Collaborators / 
Associates / Subsidiaries / Group companies to perform the contract, should the 
circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
13.0 NESCL/ NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw 
the Invitation for Bids (IFB) for the subject package without assigning any reason 
whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising out 
of such action. 
14.0 Address for Communication 
Sr. Manager (CS)/AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301, 
State of U.P., India 
Contact: 0120-494 6544/6520 
E-mail : rsingh03@ntpc.co.i n / abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in
15.0 Registered Office 
NTРС Electric Supply Company Ltd. (NESCL) 
R&D Building A 8A Sector 24,  
NOIDA 
Uttar Pradesh- India-201301 
Corporate Identification Number: U40108DL2002GOI116635, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
           Appendix-I.
Qualifying Requirements for EPC PACKAGE FOR Substation and 
Transformer Package for SS-2 (Gandhinagar) and SS-4 (Campbell Bay)
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the 
Bidder should also meet the technical qualifying requirements stipulated in clause 1.0 
and financial requirements as stipulated in clause 2.0.  
1.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1   The Bidder should have designed, Supplied, constructed / erected, tested and 
commissioned at least one (1) number of Gas Insulated substation/switchyard or 
one (1) number of Air Insulated substation/switchyard of 132 kV or above voltage 
class having at least two (2) bays which should have been in successful operation 
for a period of minimum 3 months prior to the date of techno commercial bid 
opening.  
Notes for Clause 1.0: 
i)For the purpose of qualifying requirement under 1.1, one number of bay shall be
considered as comprising of at least one Circuit Breaker (3 Phase), two
disconnector (3 Phase) and current transformers (3 Phase).
ii) Bays executed in extension substation/switchyard shall also be considered.
2.0 Financial Criteria:  
 2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 
264 Crore (Indian Rupees Two hundred Sixty Four Crore only) or in equivalent 
foreign currency.  
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter 
of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder 
does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net 
worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of its Holding company wherever applicable. In such a case, however 
the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be less 
than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of 
their respective paid up share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of 
the respective paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share 
capitals 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the 
following documents for substantiation of its qualification:  
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of Holding 
Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed with the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company.  
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is 
not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and 
the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
 Notes for Clause 2.0: 
  
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share 
premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation 
of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further 
any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to 
the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves 
and surplus.  
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.  
 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India.  
 
4. For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on 
seven (7) days prior to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be 
used. 
 
 
 
 
Note for clauses 1.0 and 2.0 
 
For the purposes of this tender, any reference to the date of Techno-commercial 
bid opening for qualifying requirements wherever mentioned in the qualifying 
requirements, shall be taken as the date of Techno-commercial bid opening 
specified in the initial published NIT/IFB. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 