P a g e  1 | 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
USSC, CPG - 01 
(CONTRACTS AND MATERIALS DEPARTMENT) 
CONTRACTS SECTION 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P a g e  2 | 7 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
FOR 
JOB CONTRACT FOR RE-LAYING OF BARGE PUMP DISCHARGE PIPELINE AT BARRAGE 
RIGHT CANAL AT NTPC NABINAGAR 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC–CPG1/9900325977 
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) ” from eligible bidders for aforesaid 
package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of “ JOB CONTRACT FOR RE-LAYING OF BARGE PUMP 
DISCHARGE PIPELINE AT BARRAGE RIGHT CANAL AT NTPC NABINAGAR”. 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category Services* 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group – 1, Raipur 
NIT Date  
As per details at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
Document sale Commencement Date 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if 
any) 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Cost of Bidding Documents / Tender Fee NA  
Bid Security / EMD Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakh only) 
Benefit to MSME Applicable. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
Contract Period 12 Months 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
 
P a g e  3 | 7 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on e-tender portal”. 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-Commercial Proposal” and 
“Price Proposal” online (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within the bid submission date and 
time as mentioned above. Only Techno-Commercial proposals will be opened on the date and timed 
mentioned above. 
 
Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Tender Fees (Cost of Bidding Documents) & Bid Security for 
an amount (as mentioned at Clause 3.0 above) and Integrity Pact. Integrity Pact shall be submitted as 
per instruction mentioned in ITB/SCC. 
Bidders are requested to submit the Bank guarantee in form of e-BG through NeSL Platform 
and physical BG are accepted only when the bidder is not able to submit the e-BG due to some 
practical difficulties or constraints. 
"ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, 
THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E- BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER 
(EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY 
EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE TENDERING PORTAL”. 
e-BG details for bid security 
1 Beneficiary NTPC Limited 
2 Pan Number of the Beneficiary AAACN0255D 
3 Date of Incorporation of the Beneficiary 07.11.1975 
4 Beneficiary Bank IFSC Code SBIN0017313 
5 Account no.  10813608669 
6 Registered Address NTPC Limited, NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7 
Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi -110003 
7 Pin Code 110003 
Note : Bid security in the format of BG should be inline with the NTPC format only (Refer Forms 
and procedures of the tender documents). Any other format shall be liable for rejection of bid.  
Any bid without an acceptable Bid Security and Integrity Pact (if applicable) shall be rejected by 
Employer as being non-responsive and shall not be opened. 
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS : Applicable  
Refer Annexure – 1 of NIT 
 
6.0 Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
P a g e  4 | 7 
 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
7.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / group 
companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be limited to 
the assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of 
credentials. A negative determination of such assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may 
result in rejection of the bid.  
 
8.0 The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered to 
ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The Employer at its 
discretion may seek any clarification and/or documentary evidence only for the reference works as 
mentioned above. However, no change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant 
for conforming to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”. 
 
9.0 'Class-I local suppliers with MLC-50%’ are only eligible to participate in this tender , as 
defined in the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the 
relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids.  
 
10.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority 
as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including  bidder  from  India) having specified Transfer of  Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid 
only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
11.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
 
12.0 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to 
be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
13.0 The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The 
Bidder would be required to register on the website.  
First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Users whose email address has not 
been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first time users not allotted any vendor code by NTPC, 
P a g e  5 | 7 
 
should send a copy of the registration details to the e-mail address specified in this NIT under Address 
for Communication with following details at least three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank  
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
14.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
15.0 Address for communication: 
 
DGM/AGM (CPG-I/C&M) 
NTPC Limited, Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-I, 
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515438/0771-2515472 
Email: srikark@ntpc.co.in / monikasagar@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
16.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
P a g e  6 | 7 
 
Annexure – 1 to NIT  
 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS  
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated 
hereunder: 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
1.1 The bidder should have executed  order which includes ‘erection/  maintenance’ work of 
metallic pipelines of minimum length 2 Kilometres, diameter 200NB or more in a single 
work order within preceding 07 (seven) years prior to the date of Techno- commercial bid 
opening in any of the following manner: 
i. One (1) order having executed value not less than Rs. 92 Lakhs. 
OR 
ii. Two (2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 57 Lakhs each 
OR 
iii. Three (3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 46 Lakhs each. 
 Notes for Technical Criteria: 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have achieved the 
criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not 
completed/closed. 
2. Execution of following jobs in isolation shall not be treated as credential for subject 
works: (i) Execution of Structural Fabrication only (ii) Civil Pedestal jobs for laying of 
pipelines only (iii) Pipeline rotation job only. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner specifying the 
scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. 
4. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture /Consortium / 
Associate can also be considered provided: 
a) The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Ventures /consortium / 
Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture agreement / consortium 
agreement / deed of joint undertaking and the bidder's scope of work and break-up of 
quantities executed by them as individual contribution in the joint Venture / Consortium / 
Associate, duly authenticated by the Project Authority/Owner, meet the relevant provisions 
of eligibility criteria. 
b) In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder in an integrated joint 
venture wherein allocation of scope of work and break-up of quantities between the 
partners is not clearly specified in the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for 
establishing the eligibility as per technical criteria 1.1 of QR, the credit of executed 
quantities can be claimed by the bidder in the ratio of bidder's share in the integrated joint 
Venture Agreement, provided the applicant establishes that it regularly undertakes works 
mentioned in QR. The executed works/ quantities by the integrated joint venture shall be 
duly authenticated by the Project Authority/owner. 
5. In case of orders under execution, the value of the order executed prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be considered 
acceptable. 
6. For arriving at the executed value of order specified above, basic amount only shall be 
considered. In case order is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break – up of 
basic value and taxes. 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
2.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder should not be less than Rs. 114 Lakhs 
(Rupees One Crore Fourteen  Lakhs only) during the preceding three  (3) completed 
P a g e  7 | 7 
 
financial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
2.2 In case the bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. 2.1 above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements 
at Cl. 2.1 above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company as on the last day 
of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of 
the Holding Company. In such an event, the bidder would be required to furnish along with 
its Techno- Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the 
bidder in case of award. 
2.3 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification. 
a. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with 
copies of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
b. Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
2.4 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not 
able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date 
of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 Notes for 2.0 
1.Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
2.“Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them 
as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
3.Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does 
not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall 
be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 15-Jun-2026 12:06 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900325977
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_109238_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Service
Tender Category Services No. of Covers 3
General Technical Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For BOQ No
Is Multi Currency Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online Bankers S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf
Bid security / Valid MSE
details to avail MSE
exemption
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf OTHER DOCUMENTS AS PER
TENDER
.pdf QR RELATED DOCUMENTS
3 Finance .xls Price Bid
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee Exemption Allowed No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption Allowed Yes
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required No
Minimum Direct EMD Payment in ₹ 0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 
Work /Item(s)
Title JOB CONTRACT FOR RELAYING OF BARGE PUMP DISCHARGE PIPELINE AT BARRAGE
Work Description JOB CONTRACT FOR RELAYING OF BARGE PUMP DISCHARGE PIPELINE AT BARRAGERIGHT CANAL AT NTPC NABINAGAR
Pre Qualification Details As per tender documents 
Independent External Monitor/Remarks NA 
Show Tender Value in Public Domain Yes 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Serv - Others Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 365 
Location Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Secto Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting Address NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region Head QuartersII
Should Allow NDA Tender No Allow Preferential Bidder No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 15-Jun-2026 05:00 PM Bid Opening Date 08-Jul-2026 03:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start Date 15-Jun-2026 06:00 PM Document Download / Sale End Date 06-Jul-2026 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 16-Jun-2026 09:00 AM Clarification End Date 23-Jun-2026 09:00 AM 
Bid Submission Start Date 17-Jun-2026 09:00 AM Bid Submission End Date 06-Jul-2026 03:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size (in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 327.14
 
Work Item Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size (in KB)
1 Tender Documents PDF.rar Tender doc 14239.93
2 BOQ BOQ_112470.xls BOQ 314.00

 
 
View GTE Details - Purchase or Service GTE (No Deviation)
S.No Particulars Description Expected Value Mandatory
1.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid documents NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATION Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. harshmamodia@ntpc.co.in Harsh Mamodia Harsh Mamodia
2. vkbhojwani@ntpc.co.in Vikas Kumar Bhojwani Vikas Kumar Bhojwani
3. srikark@ntpc.co.in J.V.R.Srikar Kale KALE JAYA VENU RAGAVA SRIKAR
4. sonamjha@ntpc.co.in Sonam Jha Sonam Jha
 
 
GeMARPTS Details
GeMARPTS ID 7TENWZWUL3G3
Description RELAYING OF BARGE PUMP DISCHARGE PIPELINE AT BARRAGE RIGHT CANAL
Report Initiated On 25-Nov-2025
Valid Until 25-Dec-2025
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process allowed No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid status Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in Public Domain Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart model Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal places 2
BoQ Comparative Chart Rank Type L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree
2 MSEs Order 2012 Agree
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name DGM
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By J.V.R.Srikar Kale
Designation DGM
Created Date 15-Jun-2026 10:15 AM
 