EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 1 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
NTPC RENEWABLE ENERGY LIMITED 
(A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC GREEN ENERGY LIMITED) 
 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC 
REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
  
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
IFB No.: NREL-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9                                                               Date: 16.06.2026 
      
 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code: NTPCREL-2026-TN000028 
Bidding Document No: NREL-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
1.0 NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NTPC REL) invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single 
Stage Two Envelope (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) followed 
by Reverse Auction for  EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH  ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The scope includes the following: 
The scope of work covers the following activities and services in respect of all the 
equipment & works specified and covered under the specifications and read in conjunction 
with “Scope of Supply & services”  specified in Technical Specifications 
  
1.01 BESS with location as follows: 
 
Location BESS Capacity 
Devikot, Rajasthan 240 MW /960 MWh 
 
BESS capacity to be considered is the rated AC discharge capacity at Point of 
injection at ISTS substation.  
 
1.02 Design, Engineering, Supply, Packing and Forwarding, Transportation, Unloading, Storage, 
Installation and Commissioning of grid connected Battery Energy Storage System  (BESS) 
on turnkey basis. 
1.03 Unloading at respective site, Supervision of Erection, Testing, Commissioning, Integration of 
above equipment with BoS Infra to commission a complete BESS system integrated with 
Solar plant and grid shall be included in scope of bidder.  
1.04 Design life of BESS system including that of battery shall be of 25 years (with degraded 
capacity as per bidder’s proposal  considering daily single cycle operation) from the 
date of commissioning. 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 2 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
1.05 Batteries offered shall be rated for minimum 10,000 cycles of operation.  
1.06 The BESS Supplier shall take into consideration following loss parameters beyond the 
termination point and up to POI while sizing the nameplate capacity of the BESS:   
Head Loss to be considered in sizing 
Power Trafo Losses 1% 
Transmission Line Losses 0.25% 
 
1.07 Bidder will guarantee minimum 98 % of dispatchable capacity at POI  across all 15 
years starting with 100 % of rated dispatchable capacity (as mentioned above) for first 
year.  
1.08 Any augmentation required for meeting above criteria shall be included in scope of 
bidder. 
 
          Bidder will also quote for minimum SoH till which the batteries can be run and also expected 
deliverable capacity for 16-25 year period without further augmentation considering the timing 
of installation, degradation and minimum SoH recommended by battery OEM (to enable 
owner to plan for further augmentation after 15 years). 
 
         Minimum nameplate rated installed capacity of BESS shall be : 
Deliverable capacity* Min Nameplate 
capacity 
960 MWh 1060 MWh 
*100% of Dispatchable Capacity.  
 
1.09 Comprehensive O&M including associated warranty, annual maintenance contract 
(Service Level Agreement) and Insurance (performance) of BESS for period of 15 years 
shall be included in scope of bidder.  
1.10 Minimum monthly Round Trip Efficiency (RTE) shall be 80% including auxiliary consumption 
(Measured at Termination point) 
1.11 Monthly availability to be maintained is 98%. Detailed Availability requirements and other 
details will be mentioned in detailed specifications. 
1.12 BESS capacity offered shall be suitable for meeting deliverable capacity at POI including 
reactive power compensation.  
1.13 Grid compliance study for complete project (Solar + BESS + Power Evacuation) is included 
in scope of bidder. However, inputs for conducting grid power study to be provided by owner 
for Solar & Power evacuation package. Grid compliance study. If required, for each 
augmentation shall be in scope of bidder. 
1.14 Power quality compliance for entire Solar + BESS + Power Evacuation system upto 220 
KV/400 KV grid interconnection point (POI) at ISTS switchyard is included in scope of bidder. 
 
1.15 Aux supply system for the BESS Plant from 33 kV termination point shall be in the scope of 
Bidder The aux supply required for Battery Container at site up to final commissioning shall 
be also in the scope of Bidder.  Bidder to ensure the delivery of items at site and other works 
related to BESS plant accordingly. 
 
1.16 During operation of the BESS Plant, in case of grid failure, emergency supply requirement 
for BESS Plant shall be in the scope of Bidder. 
 
1.17 DSM Charges applicable corresponding to the metering and scheduling of BESS Plant and 
attributable to Bidder shall be paid by bidder, during the Contract duration. 
 
1.18 Bidder shall carry out Engineering to execution works of civil, erection, installation and 
commissioning works of all the supplied equipment and equipment system(s). 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 3 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
1.19 Bidder shall provide engineering drawings, data, process calculations, test procedures, 
Equipment layout, Drawings/Data sheets of bought out items, Performance & Guarantee Test 
procedure etc for review and approval of NTPC REL. 
1.20  Provide documentation for design and expected performance through design calculations, 
software, design drawings, equipment drawings, and modifications to the existing drawings.  
1.21 Complete manufacturing including conducting all type, routine and acceptance tests, Pre -
assembly, (if any), testing, pre -commissioning and commissioning and putting into 
satisfactory operation all the equipment including successful completion of initial operation. 
1.22 Scope shall include EMS configuration to operate BESS at various modes as per Grid 
requirement mentioned in specification and integrated operation with Solar plant and Plant 
Scheduling as per Grid/RLDC requirement during O&M. Bidder is required to provide EMS 
and shall be properly integrated with Solar Plant. The corresponding capacities of Solar 
Plants for the BESS packages shall be as below: 
                             240 MW at NTPC REL Devikot Solar Plant 
Further details shall be shared during detailed specification. 
1.23 Develop detailed start up and site acceptance plan. Reliability and Functional/Performance 
guarantee tests after successful completion of commissioning. 
1.24 Provide training for the operators, engineers, technicians, and maintenance personnel. 
1.25 Special tools and tackles, if any, required for maintenance of the plant 
1.26 BESS should be in line with latest guidelines of CEA, CERC and LDC. BMS, EMS, Fire 
Safety of the BESS should comply with the latest IS or/and IEC or/and IEEE standards and 
guidelines issued by statutory authorities. Fire safety of the Battery and container should be 
in line with latest Indian or/and international standards.  
1.27 All equipment, materials and services whether explicitly stated or otherwise and that are 
necessary for the satisfactory operation of the BESS system and its integration with owner’s 
system at 33 KV , as described in the specification shall be deemed to be  included in the 
scope of work. 
1.28 Further the bidder has to obtain site -specific data from the owner in preparation for 
developing installation and implementation plans.  
 
              Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical features/specification of 
equipment/ systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Document shall be final and binding. 
 
           TERMINAL POINT 
            The terminal point under the scope of this assignment shall be up to commissioning and 
Integration with Owner’s 33 KV pooling switchgear. 
 
The detailed scope of work is as defined in bidding document No.: NREL -CS-5824-
004(BESS1)-9. 
 
 
3.0 NTPC REL intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources/Borrowings. 
 
4.0 Detailed specifications, Scope of work and Terms & Conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available for examination and downloading at e-tender portal (as specified 
in this notice) and as per the following schedule: 
 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code (TSC) NTPCREL-2026-TN000028 
IFB Date 16.06.2026 
Period for downloading of Bidding Documents From 16.06.2026 to 26.06.2026  
[up to 20:00 HRS (IST)] 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 4 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
Pre Bid Conference date and Last Date for 
receipt of queries from prospective Bidders 29.06.2026 
Last date and time for receipt of Both Techno-
Commercial bid and Price bid 13.07.2026 up to 15:00 HRS (IST)* 
Techno-Commercial Bid opening date 13.07.2026 at 15:30 HRS (IST)* 
Price Bid Opening and Reverse Auction Shall be intimated later 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL 
 
 
 
 
 
5.0 
*Note: Bidders are advised to visit the ETS portal (https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com) for updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any.  
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference as specified above.  
All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for amount as mentioned below in the form as 
stipulated in the Bidding Documents: 
INR 20,00,000/-(Indian Rupees Twenty Crore only) 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND 
TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE.  
 
6.0 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and clause 2.0: 
 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
 
1.1 The bidder should have manufactured and supplied Batteries of cumulative capacity of  
minimum 80.0 MWh for grid interactive battery energy storage system(s), out of which at least one 
supply order should be of minimum 20.0 MWh capacity. The reference grid interactive battery 
energy storage system, where minimum 20 MWh capacity has been supp lied in a single order, 
must have been in successful operation for at least six (6) months prior  to the date of techno -
commercial bid opening. 
 
OR 
 
1.2 The bidder should have supplied, installed/ supervised installation and commissioned/ 
supervised commissioning of grid interactive battery energy storage system(s) of cumulative 
installed capacity of minimum 80.0 MWh, out of which at least one grid interactive battery energy 
storage system should be of minimum 20.0 MWh capacity. The reference grid interactive battery 
energy storage system of minimum 20.0 MWh capacity must have been in successful operation 
for at least six (6) months prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening.  

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 5 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
OR 
1.3 The Bidder should have designed, supplied, erected/ supervised erection and commissioned/ 
supervised commissioning of Solar Photo Voltaic (SPV)/Wind based grid connected power plant(s) 
of cumulative installed capacity of 40 MWAC or higher, out of which at least one plant should have 
been of 10 MWAC or higher capacity. The reference plant of 10 MWAC or higher capacity must have 
been in successful operation for at least six (6) months prior to the date of techno commercial bid 
opening. 
OR 
1.4 The Indian Bidder should have technical collaboration agreement with a Battery Manufacturer 
meeting the requirements stipulated at Clause 1.1 above or should have a manufacturing license 
from a Battery manufacturer meeting the  requirements stipulated at Clause 1.1 above or should 
be a joint venture company of a Battery Manufacturer meeting the  requirements stipulated at 
Clause 1.1 above. In case of technical collaboration/license, bidder shall furnish along with the bid 
a copy of such license/collaboration agreement done with the battery manufacturer and such 
agreement should be ongoing and valid for a period of at least 12 years from the ori ginally 
scheduled last date of techno commercial bid submission. In case the bidder is a joint venture 
company of a battery manufacturer meeting the requirements stipulated at clause 1.1, the bidder 
shall submit a copy of joint venture formation document along with their techno commercial bid. 
Bidder has to furnish an Undertaking jointly execu ted by the license provider/ technology 
collaborator/ JV partner qualified as per clause 1.1 and the Bidder along with its techno commercial 
bid for complete performance of the contract jointly and severally as per format enclosed in the bid 
document, failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected. 
OR 
1.5 (i) The bidder should have executed in the last ten (10) years an industrial project either as 
developer or as EPC Contractor in the area of power/ steel/ oil and gas/ petro - chemical/ 
fertilizer/cement/ or any other process industry, of minimum financial figure as mentioned in 
table below, in a single project or single work and the same must be in successful operation for 
at least one (1) year/ six (6) months* prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
Total Quoted 
Capacity 
Minimum Financial Figure 
960 MWh INR 1590 Million 
(Indian Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred and 
Ninety Million Only) 
*Successful operation:  
At least One (1) year for industrial projects other than RE sector i.e., Solar/Wind. 
At least Six (6) months for projects in RE sector (i.e., Solar/Wind) 
          AND 
 
(ii) The bidder should have executed at least one (1) Electrical Sub -station of minimum 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 6 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
33kV voltage level, consisting of equipment such as 33kV or above voltage level circuit 
breakers and power transformer, either as developer or as EPC Contractor which must be 
in successful operation for at least one (1) year/ six (6) months# prior to the date of techno-
commercial bid opening. 
 
# Successful operation:  
At least One (1) year for Electrical Sub-station in Projects other than RE sector i.e., Solar/Wind. 
At least Six (6) months for Electrical Sub-station in RE Projects (i.e., Solar/Wind). 
 
The works referred to at Clause 1.5(i) & 1.5(ii) can be in same or different projects. 
OR 
 
1.6 The bidder should be an Indian company registered in India and should be Group 
company/Holding Company/Subsidiary company of a firm meeting the requirement (s) of Clause 
1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 or 1.5 above. In such a case, Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking jointly executed 
by the firm qualified as per clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 or 1.5 and the  Bidder along with its bid for 
complete performance of the contract jointly and severally as per format enclosed in the bid 
document, failing which the Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0: 
a. For clause 1.1, reference projects for meeting cumulative manufacturing and supply 
experience of 80 MWh, may or may not be commissioned.  
b. For clause 1.1, the reference grid interactive battery energy storage system, where 
supply of minimum 20.0 MWh has been done, should be at a single location. 
c. For clause 1.2, Projects with Battery supplied by developer/owner as free issue item to 
bidder shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
d. For clause 1.2, the reference grid interactive battery energy storage system of minimum 
20.0 MWh capacity should be at a single location developed by Bidder  for itself or any 
other client. 
 
e. For clause 1.1 and 1.2, Grid interactive Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) shall consist 
of Battery System (BS), Power Conversion System (PCS) & Energy Management System 
(EMS) and used for grid connected renewable energy application or energy time shift ing/ 
peak shaving application or frequency regulation application or Load leveling application and 
the same shall have to be established by bidder by providing relevant supporting documents. 
f. For Clause 1.3, the reference SPV/Wind based grid-connected power plant of 10MW AC or 
above capacity should be at a single location developed by Bidder for itself or any other 
client. 
g. For clause 1.3, SPV based Roof-top/Floating solar power projects, which are grid connected, 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 7 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
shall also be considered eligible for QR purpose. 
h. For Clause 1.3, reference plants with solar PV module/Wind Turbine supplied by 
developer/owner as free issue item to bidder shall also be considered eligible for QR 
purpose. 
i. For Clause 1.3, bidder shall provide relevant support documents to establish that reference 
projects are Grid Connected. 
j. For clause 1.5, developer  means an entity who has either executed or got executed the 
work/ project as owner of industrial projects. 
k. For clause 1.5, the execution of industrial project as EPC Contractor means that such EPC 
Contractor is responsible for all the activities i.e. Design/Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction (with/without civil works) and Commissioning of the project/work. 
l. For Clause 1.5, the portion of work related to power transformer such as supply and /or 
installation mentioned  at cl. no. 1.5  (ii) can either be done  by EPC contractor by  
themselves or by the owner. 
m. For Clause 1.5, bidder shall submit documentary evidence for the value of the project 
certified by a Chartered Accountant.  The specified value of executed work shall be 
exclusive of Taxes. 
n. For clause 1.5, if the value of reference work is indicated in foreign currency, the exchange 
rate as on date of award of the reference work shall be considered. In case the exchange 
rate as on the date of award is not available, the exchange rate as on the next available day 
shall be considered. 
o. For establishing successful commissioning and operation of the reference projects as 
required in different clauses, bidder shall submit the certificate of successful commissioning 
and operation from the Owner of such reference project/plant. Certificate issued by owner in 
the name of Bidder/intermediary Organization shall be acceptable. However, if bidder in 
clause 1.1 or 1.2 or 1.3 is also the owner of the reference project or if the bidder in clause 
1.5  is a developer, certificate of successful  commissioning of the project issued from 
Government Renewable Nodal Agency/Government Enterprise/ Discom/ Electricity Board 
etc and evidence of successful operation from intermediary procurer/ procurer/Discom/ 
Electricity Board etc shall be submitted. 
p. Direct/Indirect Order 
The bidder shall also be considered qualified, in case the award for executing the reference 
work has been received by the bidder either directly from the owner of the plant or any other 
intermediary organization. In such a case, a certificate from such owner of plant or any other 
intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the bidder along with its techno-
commercial bid in support of bidder’s claim of meeting the qualification requirement as per 
different clauses. Bidder shall also submit a certificate of successful completion and  
operation from the Owner in line with note(o) above. 
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder should not be less than the financial figure 
mentioned in Table below, during the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening.  
Total Quoted Capacity Minimum Financial Figure 
960 MWh  INR 1590 Million 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 8 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(Indian Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred and 
Ninety Million Only) 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria on its own, its Holding 
Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or  more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding 
Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from its Holding Company, sup ported by the 
Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the contract 
by the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2 Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not 
be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of bidder’s paid -up share capital. In case 
the Bidder does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever applicable. In such a 
case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not 
be less than 100% (one hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their 
respective paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+ X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 where X1, X2, X3 are individual 
Net worth which should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of the respective paid 
up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following document s 
on substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company 
(ii) Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form 
part of the consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
In case where audited results for the last financial year as on date of techno - commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered  
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited result of three (3) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall 
be considered for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the 
financial results of the company are under audit as on techno-commercial bid opening and 
the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters 
is not available. 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free 

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 9 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
reserves means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back 
of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
iii. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
iv. For financial figure indicated in foreign currency in Clause 2.1, the exchange rates as 
on seven (7) days prior to the last date of submission of bid shall be used. 
v. ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a 
position to:  
a) Exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise. 
Or 
b) Appoint more than fifty percent of members of Board of Directors in the other 
enterprise. 
The meaning of Holding/Subsidiary/Group Company mentioned above shall be applicable for 
Clause 1.6 also. 
7.0 NTPC REL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
8.0 (a) Interested parties are required to get registered with M/s ISN Electronic Tender Services (ETS) 
website https://www.bharat-electronictender.com (if not already registered).  
8.0(b) The bidder shall be mandatorily required to submit a copy of “ Non-Disclosure Agreement” duly 
signed by the authorized signatory as per the format enclosed (Annexure-A) along with the IFB to 
enable the Employer to authorize the Bidder for procurement of the Bidding Documents.  
In case of any non -compliance in submission of Non -Disclosure Agreement (NDA), authorization 
shall not be provided to the bidders for procurement of bidding documents. 
  
8.0(c) Interested bidders are required to submit duly signed NDA , on ETS portal, prior to closing 
of Bidding documents sale period to enable the employer for authorizing the bidder to 
download the bidding documents online from the ETS portal. 
8.1 Issuance of Bid Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered to be 
qualified. The bids shall be submitted online. Bidder shall furnish hard copy of Bid Security and 
other documents as detailed in Bidding Documents before the stipulated bid submission closing 
date and time at the address given at 11.0 below.  
8.2 After registration with ETS and payment of the cost of bidding documents as above, a complete set 
of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from ETS Portal 
https://www.bharat-electronictender.com with Tender Search Code NTPCREL-2026-TN000028.  

EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS 
CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
(IFB) 
PAGE 10 OF 
10 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
Interested bidders are required to ensure that they have downloaded the official copy of bidding 
documents against Tender Search code  NTPCREL-2026-TN000028 from website of ETS before 
closure of Bid Sale Period. If only free copy of Bidding Documents are downloaded from ETS portal 
or Bidding Documents are downloaded without confirmation or without generating official copy 
serial number, then the bidders will not be able to submit the bids.  
For technical assistance, interested parties may call ETS Helpdesk at 0124 -4229071, 0124 -
4229072. 
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
9.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
10.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
Further, the Ministry of Power has waived the requirement of registration, in respect of para 3 of 
DoE Order (Public Procurement No. 4) vide F No.7lI0l2021 -PPD (1) dated 23.02.2023, for 
bidders utilizing lithium -ion cell technology, as per Letter No.  F.No. 48-15/23/2025 dated 
09.01.2026 issued from Ministry of Power (NRE Section) enclosed at Annexure-II to IFB.  
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
  
11.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
 Senior Manager (CS)/ Addl. General Manager (CS) 
Contracts Services 
NTPC Renewable Energy Limited  
4th Floor, Renewables Building, NETRA Complex 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida 
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306 
Telephone No., +91-9650999022 
E-Mail: nabintripathi@ntpc.co.in / vishaljain@ntpc.co.in   
 
Corporate Identification Number: U40107DL2020GOI371032, Website: www.ntpcrel.co.in 
 
 

Annexure-A 
NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT 
THIS NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) made on this …….. day of ………...... 
20…..... Between ……………………………………………………………………………………….., 
a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, and having its Registered Office at 
…………………………………………………………………………………and Corporate Office at 
……………………………………………………………………………………………….. hereinafter 
referred to as “Company” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof mean and include its successors and permitted assigns), of the One Part; 
And NTPC Renewable Energy Limited, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 
2013, and having its Registered Office at NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, Institutional Area, 
Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, India, hereinafter referred to as NTPC REL (which expression 
shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its successors and permitted 
assigns) of the Other Part. 
The Company and NTPC REL shall collectively be referred to as the “Parties” and individually 
as a “Party”. 
WHEREAS: 
A.  NTPC REL envisages to invite tender for the package EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
240 MW/ 960 MWH ISTS CONNECTED BESS AT NTPC REL DEVIKOT SOLAR PLANT vide IFB No. 
NREL-CS-5824-004(BESS1)-9 through which it intends to develop Wind Energy Projects 
won under Competitive Bidding Process and/or under Bilateral Arrangements through a 
competitive bidding process (“Evaluation”). 
B.  As part of Evaluation, the bidder shall be issued complete set of bidding documents. 
Further, the  bidder is also expected to examine and evaluate all instructions, forms, terms, 
conditions, specifications and other information as furnished as part of the  bidding 
documents for the purpose of submission of techno-commercial bids and/or evaluation of 
its bids and/or award of the contract and/or performance of the contract and/or operation 
of the package. 
 
C. It is anticipated by the Parties that, in the course of Evaluation, either Party may disclose 
to the other Party certain Confidential Information (defined hereinafter)  and the party 
disclosing such information shall be the Disclosing Party and that, the party receiving such 
information shall be the Receiving Party as the case may be. 
 
D. It is also anticipated by the Parties that , after the award of the contract and/or during the 
performance of the contract and/or  during the operation of the package , a Party 
(“Disclosing Party”) may disclose to the other Party (“Receiving Party”) certain Confidential 
Information (defined hereinafter). 
E.  Accordingly, t he Parties are desirous of entering into this Non -Disclosure Agreement 
which sets out their mutual confidentiality obligations in respect of the Confidential 
Information disclosed to each other in the course of their discussions on the Evaluation. 
F.  Each Party undertakes to comply with the terms and conditions as contained hereinafter 
which shall govern the exchange and handling of the non -disclosure and use of the 
Confidential Information. 
Annexure-A 
NOW THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES CONTAINED 
HEREIN, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS: 
1. Definitions and Interpretations: 
1.1  “Affiliates” means, with respect to any Person, a Person that directly or indirectly through 
one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, 
the Person specified. For the purposes of this definition, “control” (incl uding, with 
correlative meanings, the terms “controlled by” and “under common control with”) shall 
mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power, alone or together with others, 
to direct or cause the direction of the Management and policies of such Person, whether 
through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. 
1.2  “Confidential Information” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 2.1. 
1.3  “Disclosing Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.4  “Government” or “Governmental Instrumentality” shall mean any ministry, department, 
political subdivision, instrumentality, agency, provincial or municipal council, authority, 
body or entity, corporation or commission under the control of the GOI and any other 
local or other authority, agency or statutory body exercising powers conferred by Laws; 
1.5  “Laws” means all laws, statutes, enactments, acts of legislature or parliament, 
ordinances, rules, bye -laws, regulations, notifications, policies, guidelines, directions, 
directives, decision, decrees and orders of any Governmental Instrumentality having the 
force of law. 
1.6  “Materials” means the part of any tangible media upon or within which any part of the 
Confidential Information is recorded or reproduced in any form and shall include any 
storage device which forms a part of computer hardware. 
1.7  “Person” includes any natural person, firm, company, Governmental Authority, joint 
venture, association, partnership or other entity (whether or not having separate legal 
personality). 
1.8  “Receiving Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.9  “Representatives” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 3 (a). 
2.  Confidential Information 
2.1  “Confidential Information” means information which is legally owned and possessed by 
the Disclosing Party and which ought to be considered as confidential from its nature or 
from the circumstances surrounding its disclosure, in whatever form or media, imparted 
or disclosed by the Disclosing Party to the Receiving Party, in writing or by any other 
medium upon the execution of this Agreement or during the course of the discussions 
on the Evaluation. Confidential Information includes information: 
a) relating to the Disclosing Party’s business, corporate policies, strategies, operations, 
finances, employees, plans or opportunities and commercial information including 
Annexure-A 
profitability information and charts and the identity of, or particulars about, the Disclosing 
Party, marked identified as confidential, restricted, secret or proprietary at the time of 
disclosure during the discussions on the Evaluation; 
b)  the fact that the discussions referred to herein are taking place, and all notes, extracts, 
compilations or Materials or media, which are copies of or derivative works of the 
Confidential Information. 
 But does not include any information which: 
a)  is now, or hereafter, through no willful act or failure by the Receiving Party, becomes, 
generally known or available to the public; 
b)  is furnished to the Receiving Party on a non -confidential basis by a third party whom 
the Receiving Party reasonably believes that the Disclosing party had not obtained it 
under an obligation of confidentiality.; 
c)  is an information which the Receiving Party can evidence as having been independently 
developed by it without violating this Agreement; or 
d)  is legally known to the Receiving Party prior to the time of disclosure by the Disclosing 
Party. 
2.2 Obligation of Confidentiality 
 The Receiving Party shall keep the Confidential Information strictly confidential and shall 
use it for the purposes of Evaluation and shall not disclose or divulge or provide any 
Confidential Information to a third party, in manner whatsoever, without the  prior written 
consent of the Company. In case the Receiving Party is required to disclose any 
Confidential Information in terms of any Law, the Receiving Party shall endeavor to give 
the Disclosing Party reasonable notice as may be legally possible prior to such disclosure 
to obtain any applicable protective order or equivalent and provide such assistance, as may 
be required by the Disclosing Party for the purposes of safeguarding such Confidential 
Information and further comply with the same. 
3. Undertakings and Covenants of the Parties: 
Each Party hereby agrees, undertakes, confirms and covenants with the other that: 
a)  it shall keep strictly confidential and not use, reveal, provide or transfer to any Person, 
directly or indirectly, the Confidential Information or any part thereof, except to such of 
its employees, directors, co -investors, debt financing sources, attorne ys, accountants, 
consultants or representatives (collectively, “Representatives”) strictly on a “need -to- 
know” basis for the purpose of Evaluation, and the Receiving Party shall at all times 
remain fully responsible for such Representatives’ compliance under this Agreement; 
b)  it shall not keep, reproduce, use for any unauthorized purpose or part with possession 
of any documents or Material relating to the Confidential Information, save as required 
for the purposes of Evaluation, except with the prior written consent of the Dis closing 
Party; 
Annexure-A 
c)  it shall apply, adopt and enforce appropriate procedures and policies with regard to and 
in respect of transmission, publication and disclosure of the Confidential Information, in 
order to preserve the confidentiality or propriety of such information; 
d)  it shall exercise the same care in preventing unauthorised disclosure or use of the 
Confidential Information as it would take to protect and safeguard the confidentiality of 
its own information of a similar nature; 
e)  it shall maintain proper records and enforce strict accountability of all Confidential 
Information received from the Disclosing Party and whenever required to transmit 
publish or disclose or otherwise provide such Confidential Information subject to, and as 
may be permitted under this Agreement, it shall do so with due diligence and shall 
convey to the recipient of such information that the same is subject to non disclosure 
obligations under this Agreement, so as to put the recipient on notice that the recipient 
shall be held accountable in respect of disclosure of such Confidential Information and 
that the recipient is expected to maintain confidentiality as if the recipient was a party to 
this Agreement and obtain such assurances, agreement and underta king from the 
recipient that it shall return such information upon request by the Disclosing Party; 
f)  it shall ensure that the Representatives are made aware of the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement including without limitation the confidentiality obligations of the Receiving 
Party under this Agreement and abide by it at all times. 
g)  Any materials or documents that have been furnished by the Disclosing Party to the 
Receiving Party in connection with the relationship will be promptly returned by the 
Receiving Party, accompanied by all copies of such documentation or certification of 
destruction, within TEN days after the relationship has terminated or on the written 
request of the Company. 
4. Term: 
 Unless otherwise agreed to, expressly in writing by the Parties, the obligations hereunder 
shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with the terms hereof and shall 
terminate on the expiry of earlier of (i) the Parties entering into legally binding documentation 
in relation to or pursuant to the Evaluation; and (ii) twelve months from the date of this 
Undertaking; 
5. Rights and Remedies of the Disclosing Party: 
5.1 On the expiry of the term of this Agreement or upon its termination for any reason 
whatsoever or immediately upon the Disclosing Party’s request at any time during the term 
hereof, the Receiving Party shall forthwith return to the Disclosing Party all the Material 
which are capable of returning to the Disclosing Party, then in the possession of the 
Receiving Party which contain any such Confidential Information, and shall forth with take 
reasonable steps to expunge all Confidential Information (and any copy that may have been 
made) from any computer, word processor or other device containing the Confidential 
Information. 
5.2 In the event of breach of any of the conditions stipulated by this Agreement, the Disclosing 
Party shall be at liberty to take necessary steps to prevent the Receiving Party from 
Annexure-A 
disclosing or using such Confidential Information except as authorized herein, including 
without limitation, terminate this Agreement by serving 30 (thirty) days prior notice, in 
writing. 
5.3 The Receiving Party acknowledges and undertakes that unauthorised disclosure or use of 
the Confidential Information by it shall cause irreparable damage to the Disclosing Party in 
such a way that the Disclosing Party cannot be adequately compensated in damages in an 
action at law. Accordingly, if any dispute arises concerning the disclosure or use of any 
Confidential Information by the Receiving Party, the Disclosing Party may seek injunctive 
relief restraining the un-authorised disclosure or use of the Confidential Information by the 
Receiving Party or specific performance of this Agreement. The above remedy will be in 
addition to any other legal or equitable remedy otherwise available to the Disclosing Party. 
6. Compliance with Law 
 Each Party acknowledges that some or all of the Confidential Information provided herein (in 
case Disclosing Party is a listed company) is or may be price -sensitive information and that 
the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by Law and  each Party 
undertakes not to use, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information in contravention of 
any Law. On acquiring any Confidential Information, each Party shall comply with all Laws, 
and shall indemnify and hold the other Party harmless aga inst any consequences arising 
from any violation by such Party or its Representatives of such Laws. 
7. Entire Agreement: 
 The terms and conditions herein constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the 
Parties on the subject matter of this Agreement and shall cancel and supersede all 
communications, negotiations, arrangements and agreements, either oral or written, 
between the Parties hereto, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 
8. Amendments: 
 No amendment to or modification of this Agreement shall be valid or enforceable unless 
reduced to writing and executed by the Parties hereto. 
9. Waiver: 
 The failure to exercise or delay in exercising a right or remedy under this Agreement shall 
not constitute a waiver of the right or remedy or a waiver of any other rights or remedies and 
no single or partial exercise of any right or remedy under this Agre ement shall prevent any 
further exercise of the right or remedy or the exercise of any other right or remedy.  
10. Notice 
10.1 Any notice, demand or other communication required or permitted to be given to either 
Party by, or made pursuant to, this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be personally 
delivered to such Party, sent by prepaid courier; or sent by facsimile transmis sion, 
charges prepaid, confirmed by prepaid courier to the following address: 
 
Annexure-A 
To:   ……………………………………………………………. (Name of Company) 
Attn:   …………………………………………………………….. 
Address:  …………………………………………………………….. 
Phone:  …………………………………………………………… 
 
To: NTPC Renewable Energy Limited 
Registered Address: NTPC Limited, Core 7, Scope Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi-110003 
10.2 Any Party may from time to time change its address upon serving at least 5 (five) 
business days prior written notice to the other Party given in accordance with the 
provisions hereof. 
10.3 Any notice, demand or other communication delivered in accordance with Article (10.1) 
or (10.2) above if delivered during the normal business hours of the intended recipient, 
shall be deemed to have been received on the day of its delivery, otherwise on the next 
business day, and if sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been received on the 
date of its transmission by facsimile provided that in the case of a facsimile the recipient’s 
facsimile number appears on the senders transmission report (conf irmation copy to be 
sent by prepaid courier). 
11.0 Severability: 
 Any provision in this Agreement which is held to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or 
in part, under any applicable enactment or rule of law, shall be ineffective to the extent 
of such illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions and 
any such illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed to be restated to reflect as 
nearly as possible the original intentions of the Parties in accordance with the applicable 
law. 
12.0 Governing Law: 
 This Agreement shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the 
laws of India. 
13.  Dispute Resolution: 
 Courts at  Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the  disputes pertaining to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Annexure-A 
14.  Counterparts: 
 This Agreement may be executed in 2 (two) counterparts, each of which when executed 
and delivered is an original and shall be retained by each Party and taken together shall 
constitute and evidence the same Agreement between the Parties. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed these presents, in duplicate, the day 
and year first herein above mentioned. 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by ………………………………………………………… (Name of Company) 
in the presence of 
…………………………………………………………. 
 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd 
in the presence of 
………………………………………………………… 
F. No. 48-1512312025
Government of India
Ministry of Power
(NRE Section)
Shram Shakti Bhawan,
Rafi Marg, New Delhi-l10001
Dated the 9th Jantary,2026
To
1. Principal Secretaries/Secretary (Power/Energy) of all State Governments/UTs
2. CMDs, CPSUs (Power)
3. Head, REIAs
Subject: Registration waiver under clause 15(iv) of Department of Expenditure's Public
Procurement Order No. 4 dated 23.02.2023 in respect of utilizing lithium-ion cell technology
for Grid Connected Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) tenders.
Sir/Madam
The Ministry is in receipt of requests from BESS manufacturers seeking waiver of the
DPIIT registration requirement, for bidders with Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangements
with land-border sharing countries, using lithium-ion cell technology in grid-connected BESS
tenders.
2. India's revised NDC targets a 45o/o reduction in GDP emission intensity, 50olo non-fossil
installed capacity by 2030, and net-zero emissions by 2070, necessitating large-scale deplo5rment
of Energy Storage Systems (ESS) for a secure and reliable grid. CEA has projected the BESS
requirements of 208 GWh by 2029-30, against the existing capacity of about 0.5 GWh. The
domestic grid-scale battery manufacturing is in a nascent stage. At present,lithium-ion cells
remain the most mature and cost-effective technology used in the grid connected Battery Energy
storage system world-wide.
3. In view of the non-availability of adequate domestic manufacturing of lithium-ion cells in the
country, the Ministry hereby waives the requirement of registration, in respect of para 3 of DoE
Order (Public Procurement No. 4) vide F No.7lI0l2021-PPD (1) dated 23.02.2023, for bidders
utilizing lithium-ion cell technology, for 1 year from the date of issue of this letter, to facilitate
their participation in BESS tenders.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.
w*_"
(SuniiKumar Sharma)
Director (RCMAIRE)
Email: sunil. sharm a24@gov .in
Encl: DoE Order (Public Procurement No. 4) dated23.02.2023
,:Copy to:
1. secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade.
2. National security council secretariat (As per para 15(iv) of Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure Procurement Policy Division Order No.F.7/10/2021-PPD(1)
dated 23.02.2023)