


Page 1 of 2 
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR  
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PACKAGE  FOR BARAUNI TPS STAGE-II (2X250MW) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder should also meet the qualifying 
requirements stipulated hereunder in clause 1.0 and clause 2.0 as below: 
1.0  Technical Criteria 
1.1 The Bidder should have executed pneumatic fly ash transportation system(s) involving design, engineering, 
manufacturing/got manufactured, supply, erection /supervised erection and commissioning/ supervised commissioning 
for transporting fly ash from coal/lignite fired boiler unit having capacity of not less than 20 TPH for a conveying distance 
of not less than 500 meter including fly ash storage silo.  
The systems mentioned above should have been in successful operation in at least one (1) plant for at least one (1) year 
prior to the date of techno commercial bid opening. 
Further, a transportation system provided for an individual boiler unit having dedicated transportation vessels below dry 
dust collection buffer hoppers and dedicated piping from dry dust collection buffer hoppers/ intermediate silos to storage 
silos, including storage silos can be considered as a plant for meeting the requirement above. 
Notes to the above clause: - 
i) The activity of design and engineering under 1.1 should have been carried out by the Bidder and not through any
external design agency/agencies.
ii) For reference fly ash handling systems, the design capacity of transportation from buffer hoppers/ intermediate silos
to storage silos will be the capacity which the client (of the reference plant against which the Bidder is seeking
qualification) must have specified in its contract documents.
2.0  Financial Criteria 
2.1.1  The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening, should not be less than 49.50 crore (Indian Rupees Forty-Nine Crores fifty lakhs only) 
In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company 
would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of 
the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, 
a Letter of Undertaking from the Ho
format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the 
Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
2.1.2  The Net Worth of the bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of the its paid up share capital. In case the Bidder does not satisfy the Net Worth criteria on its own, it can meet 
the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries 
of its Holding Company wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in a combined manner should not be less than 
100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 
75% (seventy-five percent) of their respective paid up share capitals.  
Net Worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net Worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Page 2 of 2 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective paid up share capitals 
and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals.
2.1.3  In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification:  
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies of the audited
consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents,
stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the consolidated annual financial
statements of the Holding Company.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid opening are not 
available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating 
the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial 
bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not 
available. 
NOTES: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve means all reserves
credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation
of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves
and surplus.
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
(iii) "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary Company" shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per Companies Act 2013.
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to the date of
Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used.