         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
1 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Invites 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
For 
Exploring the OEMs/ Expert Agency/Research Institute for design of Steam Turbine at 55% 
TMCR Load as best efficiency point for New Upcoming sub-critical & super-critical Units 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
2 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS OF EOI 
 
This EOI document comprises the following sections: 
 
(i) Section I : EOI Information 
(ii) Section II : Introduction 
(iii) Section III : Instructions to the Applicants 
(iv) Section IV : Consideration of Response 
(v) Section V : Application Form and Annexures 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
3 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - I 
 
 
EOI Information 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
4 | Page 
 
 
 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
 
EOI No.: NTPC/EOC/EOI/STMTUR/2026-27                                            Date: 12.06.2026 
 
NTPC Limited is Inviting an Expression of INTEREST (EOI) exploring the OEMs/ Expert 
Agency/Research Institute from India for design of Steam Turbine at 55% TMCR Load as best 
efficiency point for New Upcoming sub-critical & super-critical Units. 
 
1. NTPC Limited (A Government of India Enterprise) intends to explore the Expert 
Agency/OEMs for design of Steam Turbine at 55% TMCR Load as best efficiency point 
for New Upcoming sub-critical & super-critical Units . In this regard, NTPC Limited 
invites Expression of Interest (EOI). (Hereinafter called APPLICANT).  
 
Note: This EOI is to assess prospects of OEMs/ Expert Agency/Research Institute 
from India for design of Steam Turbine at 55% TMCR Load as best efficiency point for 
New Upcoming sub-critical & super-critical Units . After identifying the APPLICANTs 
through EOI who are interested in design of Steam Turbine at 55% TMCR Load as best 
efficiency point for New Upcoming sub-critical & super-critical Units and fulfilling all 
technical requirements, “Applicant” base shall be prepared. 
 
2. DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
a. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost 
from www.ntpctender.com & https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
b. Last date for submission of EOI : 15.07.2026 
c. Response Validity :     2 months from 
Last Date of 
EOI Submission 
3. NTPC Limited encourages submission of EOI in soft copy. For consideration of 
EOI, APPLICANTs are required to e-mail softcopy of EOI, completed in all respect, 
through e- mail mentioned hereunder. If APPLICANTS also wish to submit hard 
copies of the EOI, the same can be submitted either in person or by registered/ 
speed post till the last date of submission of EOI to the following address: - 
 
To: Satyendra Kumar Singh, DGM (PEM-Mech/TG) 
Email: satyendraksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Project Engineering (Mechanical), 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
4. NTPC Limited reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, 
cancel/withdraw the EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in 
such case, APPLICANT shall not have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC 
bears no responsibility or liability of any kind in reference to the EOI. 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
5 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - II 
 
 
Introduction 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
6 | Page 
 
 
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
i. NTPC Limited is a Govt. of India Enterprise. NTPC group produces electricity 
through its cluster of gas, coal, hydro and RE based power stations of more than 
90 GW capacity spanning across the country. 
 
ii. NTPC Limited, in keeping focus on evolving power market, intends to explore for 
OEMs/ Expert Agency/Research Institute for design of Steam Turbine at 55% TMCR 
Load as best efficiency point for New Upcoming sub-critical & super-critical Units. 
 
 
iii. NTPC Limited intends to engage a technically competent and experienced OEMs/ 
Expert Agency/Research Institute  to undertake a comprehensive study for 
recommending Steam turbine design with best efficiency/cycle heat rate at 55% 
of maximum continuous rating (MCR) load. The study will involve identification, 
evaluation, and recommendation of design modifications and advanced 
technologies for improving the heat rate and efficiency of new upcoming sub-
critical & supercritical steam turbine units at 55% TMCR load, while maintaining 
operational flexibility, reliability, and grid support requirements. Study aims to 
cover the upcoming entire fleets of sub-critical units 200 MW, 500 MW, 600 MW 
and super-critical units of 660 MW & 800 MW capacity. 
 
 
iv. Based on response in EOI, NTPC Limited intends to consolidate the interested 
‘Applicant’ base and get the said study done. Tendering process and associated 
modalities in this regard shall be subsequently finalized. ‘Applicant’ are 
requested to submit their budgetary offer also with this EOI for conducting said 
study.  
v. The essential data to be submitted with the EOI application and experience of 
the ‘Applicant’ for this EOI is detailed in subsequent sections of this document. 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
7 | Page 
 
 
 
 
2. INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
The purpose of this Expression of Interest (EOI) is to identify and engage reputed Steam 
turbine OEMs, Research institutions and Expert Agencies from India possessing proven 
expertise in steam turbine design and thermal performance optimization for utility-scale 
power plants. 
 
For design of Steam Turbine at 55% Load as best efficiency point, the study is intended but 
not limited to: 
 
i. Identify innovative steam turbine design features and technologies capable of 
improving heat rate and efficiency at 55% Load. 
ii. Evaluate global best practices adopted in sub-critical steam turbine units and 
supercritical steam turbine units for flexible and efficient low-load operation. 
iii. Assess opportunities for optimization of HP, IP, and LP turbine steam paths to 
minimize efficiency degradation at 55% Load. 
iv. Examine advanced blade profiles, sealing technologies, exhaust hood designs, 
moisture management systems, and other turbine improvements for enhanced 
performance at 55% Load. 
v. Study thermodynamic cycle modifications and regenerative cycle optimization 
measures that can improve overall plant heat rate at 55% Load. 
vi. Identify design provisions that may be incorporated to achieve superior operating 
efficiency at part load of 55% and without much attention at full load performance 
i.e., at 100% Load. However, unit capability for 105% shall be also ensured with 
respect to grid requirements. 
vii. Evaluate advanced control philosophies, sliding pressure operation strategies, 
Overload valve use strategy, Control stages design (If applicable), Governing 
system design and flexible operation features suitable for upcoming thermal power 
stations. Further, operational strategies to reduce the start-up time of Steam Turbine 
in view of two-shift operation.  
viii. Benchmark domestic and international technologies, research findings, and 
operating experiences relevant to part load steam turbine efficiency enhancement. 
ix. Quantify the potential heat rate improvement achievable through recommended 
design interventions. 
x. Develop technical guidelines and design recommendations for incorporation in 
future 200/500/600 MW sub-critical, 660 MW and 800 MW supercritical steam 
turbine procurement specifications. 
xi. Support NTPC in developing next-generation thermal power units capable of 
meeting future grid flexibility requirements while maintaining best in class efficiency 
at 55% Load with reliability. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
8 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section - III 
 
 
Instructions to the Applicants 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
9 | Page 
 
 
 
 
1. The Applicants should note that: 
 
i. Applicants shall submit their Expression of Interest (EOI) along with all relevant 
supporting documents demonstrating their technical expertise and experience. 
ii. Applicants shall clearly indicate their understanding of the design study objectives 
and proposed approach for achieving heat rate improvement in upcoming 
200/500/600 MW sub-critical, 660 MW and 800 MW super-critical steam turbine 
units at 55% Load. 
iii. Applicants shall provide details of relevant assignments, studies, research work, or 
projects executed in the field of steam turbine design, thermal performance 
improvement and cycle optimization. 
iv. Applicants shall furnish details of key technical personnel proposed for the study, 
including their qualifications, experience, and areas of specialization. 
v. Applicants shall provide details of analytical tools, software, modelling capabilities, 
laboratories, testing facilities, and proprietary technologies available with them. 
vi. Applicants shall submit details of publications, patents, technical papers, research 
activities, or technology developments relevant to steam turbine performance 
enhancement, as applicable. 
vii. Applicants shall highlight their experience in subcritical and supercritical steam 
turbine technologies, particularly for utility-scale units of 200/500 MW and above. 
viii. Applicants shall indicate their experience in low-load operation, flexible operation, 
part-load efficiency improvement, and advanced turbine cycle optimization. 
ix. Applicants shall furnish documentary evidence in support of all claims regarding 
technical expertise, project experience, and their capabilities. 
x. All information submitted shall be complete, accurate, and duly authenticated by an 
authorized representative of the applicant. 
xi. NTPC reserves the right to seek additional information, clarifications or technical 
discussions from any applicant during the evaluation process. 
xii. Submission of an EOI shall not constitute any commitment by NTPC for issuance of 
a tender, award of work, or reimbursement of any costs incurred by the applicant. 
xiii. NTPC reserves the right to accept or reject any or all EOIs without assigning any 
reason thereof. 
xiv. Applicant shall make themself duly aware with CEA & CERC regulations which shall 
be taken care while performing the above Steam Turbine design at 55% Load and 
propose their recommendation. Design study shall also include the key 
recommendation which needs to taken up with regulatory bodies in respect of heat 
rate improvement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
10 | Page 
 
 
 
 
2. Enquiries and clarifications 
 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via email:  
 
To: Satyendra Kumar Singh, DGM (PEM-Mech/TG & System) 
Email: satyendraksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Project Engineering (Mechanical), 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
3. Corrigendum 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EOIs, NTPC may, for any 
reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by 
an Applicant, modify the EOI document. The amendment will be posted on the 
website and will be binding on the Applicants and the Applicant will give due 
consideration to the same, while they submit their EOIs, and would invariably 
enclose documents/ information, as required, on account of the amendment, as a 
part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its discretion, extend the deadline for the 
submission of EOIs. 
 
 
4. Preparation of the response to EOI 
The application of EOI consists of the following: 
(a) Annexure 1,2, & 3 of Section-V 
 
5. Validity of the responses 
 
The Applicant shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to two (2) 
months after the response Deadline (“Response Validity”). NTPC reserve the right 
to reject any response, which does not meet the aforementioned validity 
requirement. 
 
NTPC may solicit the Applicant’s consent for an extension of the period of validity 
of the response. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing. In 
the event any Applicant refuses to extend its response validity as requested by 
NTPC, NTPC shall terminate processing of such Applicant’s responses. An 
Applicant accepting NTPC request for validity extension shall not be permitted to 
modify its response. 
 
 
 
 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
11 | Page 
 
 
 
 
6. Submission of the response to EOI 
 
The responses to the EOI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail format  
 
To: satyendraksingh@ntpc.co.in 
 
Ref. EoI No.  Dated 
 
Submitted to: 
To: Satyendra Kumar Singh, DGM (PEM-TG & System) 
Email: satyendraksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Project Engineering (Mechanical), 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
Submitted by: 
Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized 
signatory in whose favour the Power of Attorney is issued. 
 
The responses to the EOI should be submitted within the Deadline as mentioned 
in this document. 
 
 
7. Costs and expenses towards response to EOI 
 
The Applicants shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation 
of the response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution of the 
documents related with this EOI, NTPC shall not be responsible in any way for 
such costs, regardless of the conduct or outcome of this short-listing/ selection 
process. 
 
8. Confidentiality 
 
The Applicants undertake to hold in confidence this EOI and any document related 
or pursuant to this EOI and not to disclose the terms and conditions of the 
transaction contemplated hereby to third parties, except: 
 
(a) To their professional advisors. 
 
(b) To their officers, contractors, employees, agents or representatives, financiers, 
who need to have access to such information for the proper performance of their 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
12 | Page 
 
 
 
 
activities. 
 
(c) Disclosures required under applicable Law, without the prior written consent of the 
other parties of the concerned agreements. 
 
Provided that the Applicant(s) agrees and acknowledges that NTPC may at any 
time, disclose the terms and conditions of this EOI and any document related or 
pursuant to this EOI to any person, to the extent stipulated under the applicable 
Law. 
 
9. Disclaimer 
 
(a) This Expression of Interest (EOI) has been prepared by NTPC Ltd. to 
consolidate the interested “Applicant” base for the OEMs/ Expert 
Agency/Research Institute for design of Steam Turbine at 55% TMCR Load as 
best efficiency point for New Upcoming sub-critical & super-critical Units. 
 
 
(b) In submitting an expressed EOI in response to the EOI, the Applicants certify 
that it understands, accepts and agrees to the disclaimers on this page. Nothing 
contained in any other provision of the EOI nor any statements made orally or in 
writing by any person or party shall have the effect of negating or superseding 
any of the disclaimers set forth herewith. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
13 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-IV 
 
 
 
Consideration of Response 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
14 | Page 
 
 
 
 
RESPONSIVENESS/EVALUATION METHODOLOGY 
 
1. Responsiveness check 
 
The responses submitted by Applicants shall be scrutinized to establish expertise 
in Steam Turbine design and thermal performance optimization for utility-scale 
power plants. 
 
a. Responses that are incomplete, i.e. not accompanied by any of the applicable 
formats inter alia covering letter, applicable undertakings, provided in more 
details at annexure in Section-V. 
 
b. Responses not accompanied by Essential Information as prescribed in Annexure 
3 in Section-V. 
 
c. Responses not signed by authorized signatory and / or stamped in the manner 
indicated in this EOI. 
 
d. Material inconsistencies in the information/ documents submitted by the 
Applicant. 
 
e. An Applicant submitting more than one response to this EOI either itself or 
through an affiliate or subsidiary company. 
 
f. Response validity being less than that required as per Clause 5 of section-III of 
this EOI. 
 
g. Response being conditional in nature. 
 
h. Response not received by the response Deadline. 
 
i. Response having Conflict of Interest. 
 
j. Applicant delaying in submission of additional information or clarifications 
sought by NTPC, as applicable. 
 
All response to the EOI that shall meet the responsive check requirements set out 
above in this section of the EOI document shall be considered as responsive. In 
case of non- submission of relevant details as above, the responses may be 
considered as “non-responsive”, at the sole discretion of NTPC and will not be 
considered further. 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
15 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-V 
 
 
Application Form & Annexures 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
16 | Page 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-1 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
Date  :    
Place :    
 
To, 
……………………………. 
 
Sub.: (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 
Ref.:  EoI No.  , dated  (the “EOI”) 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined 
and understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
We confirm that neither we nor any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate 
Parent Company has submitted response other than this response directly or 
indirectly in response to the aforesaid EOI. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC Limited, as 
amended. In token of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed 
& stamped by us and enclosed to the response. We hereby confirm that the 
provisions of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We are not from a country sharing land border with India. 
 
3. We have submitted our response strictly as per provisions and formats of the 
EOI, without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any 
assumptions or notes. 
 
4. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision 
made by NTPC Limited in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the 
EOI shall be binding on us. We hereby expressly waive any and all claims in 
respect of EOI process. We confirm that there are no litigations or disputes 
against us, which materially affect our ability to participate or function under the 
obligations with regard to EOI. 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
17 | Page 
 
 
 
 
5. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
6. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats 
in electronic format sent via email to: -------------------- as per the EOI for 
consideration. 
 
7. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of sub- 
mission as stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC 
Limited, if any. 
 
8. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the 
requirements stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge 
and understanding. We would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions 
in our response. 
 
9. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for 
acceptance for a period of two (2) months from the response Deadline. 
 
10. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed “ Non- 
Responsive” as stipulated in Section-IV of this EOI. 
 
11. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
We remain, 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of 
Attorney is issued) 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
18 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-2 
 
INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
 
 
(Note: Documents in support of meeting the respective requirement shall be sub- 
mitted by the Applicant.) 
1. Name of the Company/ Research institute/ Expert agency/OEM: 
 
2. Legal status of the Company / Research institute/ Expert agency / OEM: 
 
3. Brief description of the Company / Research institute/ Expert agency / OEM 
including details of its business groups/subsidiaries/ affiliates: 
 
4. Existing design office / R&D office / R&D Lab facility / Manufacturing facilities (If 
any) – Locations (Country name): 
 
NOTE: Strikethrough wherever not applicable 
5. Date of Incorporation: 
6. Date of Commencement of Business: 
7. Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any: 
 
8. Documents to be enclosed: 
 
Credentials – Relevant Product/System catalogues, Research papers published, 
Experience /Reference List, Copies of Customer Certificates, collaborations/tie-
ups with designers and manufacturers (as applicable), Supporting document for 
technology ownership (as applicable), details of manufacturing facility including 
location and country name, quality accreditations, etc. 
 
9. Any other documents considered relevant. 
 
(Sign & Seal) 
Authorized signatory 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
19 | Page 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-3 
 
INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT SEPARATELY FOR 
THEIR DESIGN AND EFFICIENCY OPTIOMISATION EXPERIENCE AT PART 
LOAD FOR 200/500 MW AND ABOVE UNIT SIZES (Sub-critical/Super-
critical) 
 
Essential Information: 
 
1. Details of past Steam Turbine Performance Improvement design studies performed at 
part load. The details of design study to be submitted as per table below: 
 
Sl. No. Particulars Details to be Furnished by Applicant 
a)  Project Name Name of Power Plant / Utility 
b)  Client Name Owner/Utility Name 
c)  Country Country where study was performed 
d)  Year of Completion Year of study completion 
e)  Unit Rating MW Capacity of Unit 
f)  Steam Turbine Type Subcritical / Supercritical / Ultra-
supercritical 
g)  Turbine Configuration Tandem Compound / Cross Compound / 
Single Reheat / Double Reheat 
h)  Condenser Cooling System Water cooled condenser / Air cooled 
condenser 
i)  Scope of Study 
Heat Rate Improvement / Flexible 
Operation / Steam Path Optimization / 
Cycle Optimization 
j)  Minimum Unit Load 
Considered for Heat rate 
optimization point 
Minimum load (% TMCR) covered under 
study 
k)  Baseline Gross Heat Rate kcal/kWh before implementation 
l)  Improved Gross Heat Rate kcal/kWh after 
implementation/recommendation 
m)  Net Heat Rate Improvement 
Achieved kcal/kWh 
n)  Percentage Heat Rate 
Improvement % 
o)  Turbine Areas Studied 
HP / IP / LP Turbine / Governing System / 
Seals / Exhaust Hood / Cycle components 
modified etc. 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
20 | Page 
 
 
 
 
p)  Major Recommendations 
Proposed Brief description 
q)  Steam Path Modifications 
Recommended Yes / No (Provide details) 
r)  Blade Path Redesign 
Involved Yes / No (Provide details) 
s)  Advanced Sealing 
Technology Proposed Yes / No (Provide details) 
t)  Exhaust Hood Optimization 
Proposed Yes / No (Provide details) 
u)  Variable Pressure Operation 
Evaluated Yes / No (Provide details) 
v)  Flexible Operation 
Assessment Conducted Yes / No (Provide details) 
w)  CFD Analysis Performed Yes / No (Provide details) 
x)  Thermodynamic Cycle 
Modelling Performed Yes / No (Provide details) 
y)  Capital Investment incurred 
in efficiency improvement at 
part load 
INR/Applicable currency 
z)  Estimated Payback Period Years 
aa)  Recommendations 
Implemented by Client Fully / Partially / Not Implemented 
bb)  Verified Performance 
Improvement After 
Implementation 
Yes / No 
cc)  Client Reference Contact 
Details Name, Designation, Email, Phone No. 
dd)  Supporting Documents 
Enclosed 
Completion Certificate / Client Letter / 
Performance Report 
ee)  Any adverse experience 
after implementation of 
recommendation 
Yes / No (Provide details) 
ff)  
Any specific Steam Turbine 
based plant included in 
design study for efficiency 
improvement at part load 
Yes / No (Provide details) 
gg)  
Implementation time of 
proposed recommendation 
including shutdown period 
required of plant (If any) 
Months 
Note: Applicants shall submit documentary evidence substantiating the claimed 
efficiency improvement at part load, including performance test reports (If available), 
client certificates, published papers, completion certificates, or equivalent technical 
documents. 
         INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
21 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Budgetary offer: 
Applicants shall submit a budgetary offer for carrying out the said study, including details 
of the study methodology, deliverables, estimated man-month deployment, travel 
requirements (if any), and validity of the budgetary offer.  
 