SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) 
FOR ISTS CONNECTED WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL 
CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE, KARNATAKA  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 1 of 6 
I
NVITATION FOR BIDS 
NTPC RENEWABLE ENERGY LIMITED 
(A SUBSIDIARY OF NTPC LIMITED) 
CONTRACTS SERVICES 
I
NVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) FOR ISTS CONNECTED 
WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE, 
KARNATAKA  
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.: NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
Date: 22.06.2026 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code: NTPCREL-2026-TN000024 
Bidding Document No: NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
1.0 NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NTPC REL), invites online bids from eligible bidders on Single 
Stage Two Envelope (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) basis 
for SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) FOR ISTS 
CONNECTED WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) 
IN DAVANGERE, KARNATAKA. 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The Brief Scope of Works consists of the following: 
1. Detailed design, engineering, manufacture, supply, erection, installation testing,
commissioning of ALMM (Wind) listed wind turbine generators (WTGs) within the wind
farm with any rating of 3.0 MW or above.
2. Establishing the guaranteed performance parameters for entire wind power project by
installation of the offered Wind Turbine Generators (WTGs) along with, Control Panels,
SCADA along with controls and systems software etc.
3. Detailed design engineering supply, erection, testing, commissioning for installation of
unit substation (USS) associated with each of the offered WTGs along with electrical
works required for grid integration.
4. Erection and installation works include the civil works like foundations of towers WTGs
and its associated USS, control cabins for housing control panel near tower base (if
required) etc.
5. Ten (10) year comprehensive operation and maintenance of the supplied system under
this package (i.e., WTGs with USS) starting from the commissioning of the project

SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) 
FOR ISTS CONNECTED WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL 
CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE, KARNATAKA  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 2 of 6 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
including supply of all spare parts, consumables, repairs /replacement of any defective 
equipment etc. 
6. Providing inputs for statutory approvals and clearances for power evacuation/ grid
connectivity/ state nodal renewable Energy Agency etc as required/ applicable.
7. Supply of mandatory spares.
The detailed scope of work is as defined in bidding document No.: NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-
9. 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through Own Resources/ Borrowings. 
4.0 Detailed specification, Scope of work and Terms & Conditions are given in the bidding documents, 
which are available for examination and downloading at e-tender portal (as specified in this notice) 
and as per the following schedule: 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last 
date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference as specified above. 
ETS Portal Tender Search Code (TSC) NTPCREL-2026-TN000024 
IFB Date 22.06.2026 
Period of Downloading of Bidding Documents From 22.06.2026 to 02.07.2026 
(till 17:00 HRS) 
Pre-Bid Conference and Last Date for receipt of 
queries from prospective Bidders  03.07.2026 
Last Date and Time for receipt of bids comprising 
both Techno-Commercial Bid and Price Bid 16.07.2026 15:00:00 (IST) 
Date & Time of opening of Techno-Commercial 
Bid  16.07.2026 15:30:00 (IST) 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Not Applicable / NIL 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by a Bid Security of INR 100,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees One 
Hundred Crore Only). 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER SHALL SUBMIT THE PROOF OF 
E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE.
6.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS 
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and 2.0: 

SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) 
FOR ISTS CONNECTED WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL 
CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE, KARNATAKA  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 3 of 6 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
1.1 The Bidder should be a manufacturer of approved Wind Turbine Generator (WTG) model of 
minimum rating 3000 kW in latest ALMM (Wind) list (Approved List of Models and 
Manufactures (Wind) issued by MNRE) prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
OR 
1.2 The Bidder should be an Indian company registered in India and should be Subsidiary 
Company/ Holding Company/ Group Company of a firm meeting the requirement(s) of Clause 1.1 
above. In such a case, the Bidder shall furnish an Undertaking jointly executed by the firm qualified 
as per Clause 1.1 and the Bidder along with its bid for complete performance of the contract (in 
case of award) jointly and severally as per format enclosed in the Bid Documents, failing which the 
Bidder’s bid is liable to be rejected.  
2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the bidder should not be less than the financial figure as 
mentioned below during the preceding Three (3) financial years as on date of techno 
commercial bid opening: 
Average Annual Turnover 
Required 
= INR 106.80 Lakh / MW x Quoted Capacity in MW 
(Indian Rupees One Hundred Six Lakh Eighty 
Thousand per MW x Quoted Capacity in MW) 
Bidder can meet the above specified average annual turnover on its own or by either way of the 
following: 
a) A Bidder can meet the turnover criteria through its Holding Company, provided that the Net
Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least
equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the
Bidder would be required to furnish along with its techno-commercial Bid, a Letter of
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award.
OR 
b) In case a Bidder has acquired or taken over a business undertaking or division of another entity
(hereinafter referred to as the Seller Entity) through a slump sale / demerger transaction or the
Bidder is a resulting company after demerger, the financial turnover criteria attributable to such
transferred business during the preceding Three (3) financial years shall be considered for
evaluating the average annual turnover of the Bidder, subject to fulfilment of the following
conditions:
(i) The transferred business should have been acquired on a going-concern basis, signifying
continuity of operations, including transfer of assets, contracts, technical and operational
capabilities;
(ii) Where the business transfer has occurred within the preceding Three (3) financial years,
the turnover attributable to the transferred business for the pre -transfer period with the

SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) 
FOR ISTS CONNECTED WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL 
CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE, KARNATAKA  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 4 of 6 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
Seller Entity / Demerged Entity and the post-transfer period with the Bidder shall be 
aggregated, so as to constitute turnover for preceding continuous period of Three (3) 
financial years, provided there is no duplication of any period; 
 
(iii) The Bidder shall submit a certificate from the Statutory Auditor of the Seller Entity / 
Demerged Entity, certifying the year-wise and, where applicable, period-wise turnover 
attributable solely to the transferred business undertaking / division; 
 
(iv) The Bidder shall submit documentary evidence of the business transfer transaction, such 
as Business Transfer Agreement / Slump Sale Agreement / Scheme of Demerger and 
relevant statutory or regulatory approvals, wherever applicable. 
 
Employer reserve the right to seek additional documents or clarifications and to reject the claim of 
transferred business turnover if the relevance, continuity, attribution or completeness of the 
turnover for the required Three (3) year period is not satisfactorily established. 
 
2.2 Bidder should have Positive Net Worth as on the last day of the preceding financial year or as 
on the last day of the preceding financial quarter. In case a Bidder does not satisfy the positive net 
worth criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the 
stipulated net worth requirement as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company 
as on the last day of the preceding financial year is positive. 
 
In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its techno-commercial Bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents on substantiation of its 
qualification: 
 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
(b) Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the 
consolidated financial statement of the Holding Company. 
 
In case where audited results for the last financial year or last quarter (as applicable) as on date 
of techno commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case the Bidder is not able to submit the 
Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited 
result of three (03) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year  shall be 
considered for evaluating financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of 
the company are under audit as on techno-commercial bid opening date and the Certificate from 
a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
 

SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) 
FOR ISTS CONNECTED WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL 
CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE, KARNATAKA  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 5 of 6 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
a) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves
mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous
expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and
surplus.
b) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
c) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per
Companies Act of India.
d) Definition of Slump-sale and Demerger Transaction shall be as per Indian Income Tax Act.
e) For the value of the annual turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rates as on
Seven (7) days prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening shall be considered.
f) For the companies formed in the current or immediate preceding financial year and whose
financial results as on the last date of preceding financial year are not available, the net worth
certified by the Chartered Accountant as on the day not earlier than 7 days prior to the initially
notified last date of techno-commercial bid submission, shall be considered.
g) ‘Group Company’ means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a position
to:
a. exercise twenty-six percent or more of voting rights in other enterprise.
or 
b. appoint more than fifty percent of members of Board of Directors in the other enterprise.
The meaning of Holding/ Subsidiary/ Group Company mentioned above shall be applicable for 
Clause 1.2 also. 
7.0 NTPC REL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/ intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
8.0 
(a) 
Interested parties are required to get registered with M/s ISN Electronic Tender Services (ETS) 
website https://www.bharat-electronictender.com (if not already registered).  
(b) The bidder shall be mandatorily to submit a copy of “Non- Disclosure Agreement” duly 
signed by the authorized signatory as per the format enclosed along with the IFB to enable 
the Employer to authorize the Bidder for procurement of the Bidding Documents.
In case of any non-compliance in submission of Non- Disclosure Agreement, authorization 
shall not be provided to the bidders for procurement of bidding documents.
(c) Interested bidders are required to upload duly signed NDA, on ETS portal, prior to closing 
of Bidding documents sale period to enable the employer for authorizing the bidder to 
download the bidding documents online from the ETS portal.
9.1 Issuance of Bid Documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered to be 
qualified. The bids shall be submitted online. Bidder shall furnish hard copy of Bid Security and 
other documents as detailed in Bidding Documents before the st ipulated bid submission closing 
date and time at the address given below. 
9.2 After registration with ETS and submission of duly signed NDA as above, a complete set of Bidding 
Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from ETS Portal https://www.bharat-
electronictender.com with Tender Search Code NTPCREL-2026-TN000024.  

SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) 
FOR ISTS CONNECTED WIND ENERGY PROJECT WITH NOMINAL 
CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE, KARNATAKA  
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 
SECTION-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) Page 6 of 6 
INVITATION FOR BIDS 
Interested bidders are required to ensure that they have downloaded the official copy of 
bidding documents against Tender Search code- NTPCREL-2026-TN000024 from website of 
ETS before closure of Bid Sale Period.  
For technical assistance, interested parties may call ETS Helpdesk at 0124-4229071, 0124-
4229072. 
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
11.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be e ligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
12.0 ADDRESS FOR COMMUNICATION 
Contracts Services 
NTPC Renewable Energy Limited  
4th Floor, Renewables Building, NETRA Complex 
E-3, Ecotech-II, Udyog Vihar, Greater Noida
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India, Pin – 201306
Contact Persons 
Name & Designation Telephone No Mobile No E-Mail ID
Vishal Jain 
AGM (CS) 
+91-120-
2356525 9413354939 vishaljain@ntpc.co.in 
Gurpratap Singh 
Sr. Manager (CS) 
+91-120-
2356553 9416212724 gurpratapsingh@ntpc.co.in 
Corporate Identification Number: U40107DL2020GOI371032, Website: www.ntpcrel.co.in 

IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 / NDA
NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT 
THIS NON DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) made on this …….. day of ………...... 
20…..... Between ……………………………………………………………………………………….., 
a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, and having its Registered Office at 
…………………………………………………………………………………and Corporate Office at 
……………………………………………………………………………………………….. hereinafter 
referred to as “Company” (which expression shall unless re pugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof mean and include its successors and permitted assigns), of the One Part; 
And NTPC Renewable Energy Limited, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 
2013, and having its Registered Office at NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, Institutional Area, 
Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, India,  hereinafter referred to as NTPC REL (which expression 
shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its successors and permitted 
assigns) of the Other Part. 
The Company and NTPC REL shall collectively be referred to as the “Parties” and individually 
as a “Party”. 
WHEREAS: 
A. NTPC REL envisages to invite tender for the package SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF
WIND TURBINE GENERATORS (WTG) FOR ISTS CONNECTED WIND ENERGY
PROJECT WITH NOMINAL CAPACITY OF 813 MW (271 WTG) IN DAVANGERE,
KARNATAKA vide IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 through which it intends to
develop Wind Energy Projects  won under Competitive Bidding Process and/or under
Bilateral Arrangements through a competitive bidding process (“Evaluation”).
B. As part of Evaluation, the bidder shall be issued complete set of bidding documents.
Further, the  bidder is also expected to examine and evaluate all instructions, forms, terms,
conditions, specifications and other information as furnished as part of the  bidding
documents for the purpose of submission of techno-commercial bids and/or evaluation of
its bids and/or award of the contract and/or performance of the contract and/or operation
of the package.
C. It is anticipated by the Parties that, in the course of Evaluation, either Party may disclose
to the other Party certain Confidential Information (defined  hereinafter) and the party
disclosing such information shall be the Disclosing Party and that, the party  receiving such
information shall be the Receiving Party as the case may be.
D. It is also anticipated by the Parties that , after the award of the contract and/or during the
performance of the contract and/or  during the operation of the package , a Party
(“Disclosing Party”) may disclose to the other Party (“Receiving Party”) certain Confidential
Information (defined hereinafter).
E. Accordingly, t he Parties are desirous of entering into this Non -Disclosure Agreement
which sets out their mutual confidentiality obligations in respect of the Confidential
Information disclosed to each other in the course of their discussions on the Evaluation.
F. Each Party undertakes to comply with the terms and conditions as contained hereinafter
which shall govern the exchange and handling of the non -disclosure and use of the
Confidential Information.
Annexure to IFB

IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 / NDA
NOW THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES CONTAINED 
HEREIN, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS: 
1. Definitions and Interpretations:
1.1 “Affiliates” means, with respect to any Person, a Person that directly or indirectly through 
one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, 
the Person specified. For the purposes of this definition, “control” (including, with 
correlative meanings, the terms “controlled by” and “under common control with”) shall 
mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power, alone or together with others, 
to direct or cause the direction of the Management and policies of such Person, whether 
through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. 
1.2 “Confidential Information” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 2.1. 
1.3 “Disclosing Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.4 “Government” or “Governmental Instrumentality” shall mean any ministry, department, 
political subdivision, instrumentality, agency, provincial or municipal council, authority, 
body or entity, corporation or commission under the control of the GOI and any o ther 
local or other authority, agency or statutory body exercising powers conferred by Laws; 
1.5 “Laws” means all laws, statutes, enactments, acts of legislature or parliament, 
ordinances, rules, bye -laws, regulations, notifications, policies, guidelines,  directions, 
directives, decision, decrees and orders of any Governmental Instrumentality having the 
force of law. 
1.6 “Materials” means the part of any tangible media upon or within which any part of the 
Confidential Information is recorded or reproduced  in any form and shall include any 
storage device which forms a part of computer hardware. 
1.7 “Person” includes any natural person, firm, company, Governmental Authority, joint 
venture, association, partnership or other entity (whether or not having sepa rate legal 
personality). 
1.8  “Receiving Party” has the meaning ascribed to it in Recital C. 
1.9 “Representatives” has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 3 (a). 
2. Confidential Information
2.1 “Confidential Information” means information which is legally owned and possessed by
the Disclosing Party and which ought to be considered as confidential from its nature or
from the circumstances surrounding its disclosure, in whatever form or media, imparted
or disclosed by the Disclosing Party to the Receiving  Party, in writing or by any other
medium upon the execution of this Agreement or during the course of the discussions
on the Evaluation. Confidential Information includes information:
a) relating to the Disclosing Party’s business, corporate policies, str ategies, operations,
finances, employees, plans or opportunities and commercial information including

IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 / NDA
profitability information and charts and the identity of, or particulars about, the Disclosing 
Party, marked identified as confidential, restricted, secre t or proprietary at the time of 
disclosure during the discussions on the Evaluation; 
b) the fact that the discussions referred to herein are taking place, and all notes, extracts,
compilations or Materials or media, which are copies of or derivative works  of the
Confidential Information.
But does not include any information which:
a) is now, or hereafter, through no willful act or failure by the Receiving Party, becomes,
generally known or available to the public;
b) is furnished to the Receiving Party on a non-confidential basis by a third party whom
the Receiving Party reasonably believes that the Disclosing party had not obtained it
under an obligation of confidentiality.;
c) is an information which the Receiving Party can evidence as having been independently
developed by it without violating this Agreement; or
d) is legally known to the Receiving Party prior to the time of disclosure by the Disclosing
Party.
2.2 Obligation of Confidentiality 
The Receiving Party shall keep the Confidential Informat ion strictly confidential and shall 
use it for the purposes of Evaluation and shall not disclose or divulge or provide any 
Confidential Information to a third party, in manner whatsoever, without the prior written 
consent of the Company. In case the Receiv ing Party is required to disclose any 
Confidential Information in terms of any Law, the Receiving Party shall endeavor to give 
the Disclosing Party reasonable notice as may be legally possible prior to such disclosure 
to obtain any applicable protective order or equivalent and provide such assistance, as may 
be required by the Disclosing Party for the purposes of safeguarding such Confidential 
Information and further comply with the same. 
3. Undertakings and Covenants of the Parties:
Each Party hereby agrees, undertakes, confirms and covenants with the other that: 
a) it shall keep strictly confidential and not use, reveal, provide or transfer to any Person,
directly or indirectly, the Confidential Information or any part thereof, except to such of
its employees, directors, co-investors, debt financing sources, attorneys, accountants,
consultants or representatives (collectively, “Representatives”) strictly on a “need -to-
know” basis for the purpose of Evaluation, and the Receiving Party shall at all times
remain fully responsible for such Representatives’ compliance under this Agreement;
b) it shall not keep, reproduce, use for any unauthorized purpose or part with possession
of any documents or Material relating to the Confidential Information, save as requ ired
for the purposes of Evaluation, except with the prior written consent of the Disclosing
Party;

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 / NDA 
c)  it shall apply, adopt and enforce appropriate procedures and policies with regard to and 
in respect of transmission, publication and disclosure of the Confidential Information, in 
order to preserve the confidentiality or propriety of such information; 
d)  it shall exercise the same care in preventing unauthorised disclosure or use of the 
Confidential Information as it would take to protect and safeguard t he confidentiality of 
its own information of a similar nature; 
e)  it shall maintain proper records and enforce strict accountability of all Confidential 
Information received from the Disclosing Party and whenever required to transmit 
publish or disclose or otherwise provide such Confidential Information subject to, and as 
may be permitted under this Agreement, it shall do so with due diligence and shall 
convey to the recipient of such information that the same is subject to non disclosure 
obligations under this Agreement, so as to put the recipient on notice that the recipient 
shall be held accountable in respect of disclosure of such Confidential Information and 
that the recipient is expected to maintain confidentiality as if the recipient was a party to 
this Agreement and obtain such assurances, agreement and undertaking from the 
recipient that it shall return such information upon request by the Disclosing Party; 
f)  it shall ensure that the Representatives are made aware of the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement including without limitation the confidentiality obligations of the Receiving 
Party under this Agreement and abide by it at all times. 
g)  Any materials or documents that have been furnished by the Disclosing Party to the 
Receiving Party in connection with the relationship will be promptly returned by the 
Receiving Party, accompanied by all copies of such documentation or certification of 
destruction, within TEN days after the relationship has terminated or on the written 
request of the Company. 
4. Term: 
 Unless otherwise agreed to, expressly in writing by the Parties, the obligations hereunder 
shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with the terms hereof and shall 
terminate on the expiry of earlier of (i) the Parties entering into legally binding documentation 
in relation to or pursuant to the Evaluation; and (ii) twelve months from the date of this 
Undertaking; 
5. Rights and Remedies of the Disclosing Party: 
5.1 On the expiry of the term of this Agreement or upon its termi nation for any reason 
whatsoever or immediately upon the Disclosing Party’s request at any time during the term 
hereof, the Receiving Party shall forthwith return to the Disclosing Party all the Material 
which are capable of returning to the Disclosing Par ty, then in the possession of the 
Receiving Party which contain any such Confidential Information, and shall forth with take 
reasonable steps to expunge all Confidential Information (and any copy that may have been 
made) from any computer, word processor o r other device containing the Confidential 
Information. 
5.2 In the event of breach of any of the conditions stipulated by this Agreement, the Disclosing 
Party shall be at liberty to take necessary steps to prevent the Receiving Party from 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 / NDA 
disclosing or usi ng such Confidential Information except as authorized herein, including 
without limitation, terminate this Agreement by serving 30 (thirty) days prior notice, in 
writing. 
5.3 The Receiving Party acknowledges and undertakes that unauthorised disclosure or u se of 
the Confidential Information by it shall cause irreparable damage to the Disclosing Party in 
such a way that the Disclosing Party cannot be adequately compensated in damages in an 
action at law. Accordingly, if any dispute arises concerning the discl osure or use of any 
Confidential Information by the Receiving Party, the Disclosing Party may seek injunctive 
relief restraining the un-authorised disclosure or use of the Confidential Information by the 
Receiving Party or specific performance of this Agre ement. The above remedy will be in 
addition to any other legal or equitable remedy otherwise available to the Disclosing Party. 
6. Compliance with Law 
 Each Party acknowledges that some or all of the Confidential Information provided herein (in 
case Disclosing Party is a listed company) is or may be price-sensitive information and that 
the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by Law and each Party 
undertakes not to use, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information in contravention of 
any Law. On acquiring any Confidential Information, each Party shall comply with all Laws, 
and shall indemnify and hold the other Party harmless against any consequences arising 
from any violation by such Party or its Representatives of such Laws. 
7. Entire Agreement: 
 The terms and conditions herein constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the 
Parties on the subject matter of this Agreement and shall cancel and supersede all 
communications, negotiations, arrangements and agreements, either o ral or written, 
between the Parties hereto, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 
8. Amendments: 
 No amendment to or modification of this Agreement shall be valid or enforceable unless 
reduced to writing and executed by the Parties hereto. 
9. Waiver: 
 The failure to exercise or delay in exercising a right or remedy under this Agreement shall 
not constitute a waiver of the right or remedy or a waiver of any other rights or remedies and 
no single or partial exercise of any right or remedy under this Agre ement shall prevent any 
further exercise of the right or remedy or the exercise of any other right or remedy.  
10. Notice 
10.1 Any notice, demand or other communication required or permitted to be given to either 
Party by, or made pursuant to, this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be personally 
delivered to such Party, sent by prepaid courier; or sent by facsimile transmission, 
charges prepaid, confirmed by prepaid courier to the following address: 
 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 / NDA 
To:   ……………………………………………………………. (Name of Company) 
Attn:   …………………………………………………………….. 
Address:  …………………………………………………………….. 
Phone:  …………………………………………………………… 
 
To: NTPC Renewable Energy Limited 
Registered Address: NTPC Limited, Core 7, Scope Complex, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi-110003 
10.2 Any Party may from time to time change its address upon serving at least 5 (five) 
business days prior written notice to the other Party given in accordance with the  
provisions hereof. 
10.3 Any notice, demand or other communication delivered in accordance with Article (10.1) 
or (10.2) above if delivered during the normal business hours of the intended recipient, 
shall be deemed to have been received on the day of its delivery, otherwise on the next 
business day, and if sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been received on the 
date of its transmission by facsimile provided that in the case of a facsimile the recipient’s 
facsimile number appears on the senders trans mission report (confirmation copy to be 
sent by prepaid courier). 
11.0 Severability: 
 Any provision in this Agreement which is held to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or 
in part, under any applicable enactment or rule of law, shall be ineffective to the extent 
of such illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions and 
any such illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed to be restated to reflect as 
nearly as possible the original intentions of the Parties in accordance with the applicable 
law. 
12.0 Governing Law: 
 This Agreement shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the 
laws of India. 
13.  Dispute Resolution: 
 Courts at  Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the  disputes pertaining to this 
Agreement. 
 
 

 
IFB No. NRE-CS-5928-003(WTG)-9 / NDA 
14.  Counterparts: 
 This Agreement may be executed in 2 (two) counterparts, each of which when executed 
and delivered is an original and shall be retained by each Party and taken together shall 
constitute and evidence the same Agreement between the Parties. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed these presents, in duplicate, the day 
and year first herein above mentioned. 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by ………………………………………………………… (Name of Company) 
in the presence of 
…………………………………………………………. 
 
 
.................................. 
SIGNED and DELIVERED  
by NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd 
in the presence of 
………………………………………………………… 