NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT-1 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
OPEN TENDER 
 
NIT No: 9900327344 
          (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against this Bid Document No. 
/ Specification and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise used for purposes other 
than that for which it is specifically issued). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section-I 
INVITATION FOR BIDS/NOTICE INVITING TENDER (IFB/NIT) 
 
“Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids." 
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC), C&M-1 department invites online bids through GeM Portal on “SINGLE 
STAGE TWO ENVELOP BIDDING” Basis  from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the 
scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. NTPC intends to finance subject Package through 
Internal Resources. 
 
2.0 BRIEF Details: 
 
Work: Deployment of One (01) No. of BLS Ambulance (Type-C as per AIS-125) with 
Manpower for UJJIVAN Hospital, NTPC Dadri.  
 
Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and available at online GeM Portal and as per the following 
schedule:  
 
2.1 Description of work: Deployment of One (01) No. of BLS Ambulance (Type-C as 
per AIS-125) with Manpower for UJJIVAN Hospital, NTPC 
Dadri 
2.2 Source of IFB/NIT C&M-1, USSC, NTPC- Raipur 
2.3 Mode of Tendering OPEN TENDER 
2.4 NIT Date  
As per details at GeM Portal  
2.5 Document sale Commencement 
Date 
2.6 Last date for receipt of queries 
from bidders (if any) 
2.7 Last Date & time for Bid 
submission  
2.8 Technical Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
2.9 Price bid Opening Date & time 
2.10 Tender Fee NIL 
2.11 Bid Security / EMD INR 2,00,000/-  
 
EMD exemption is applicable in the subject NIT for MSE 
Registered Bidders (under UDYAM Only) and as per GEM 
GTC. 
 
Mode of Submission of EMD (As per NTPC format only): 
 
I) BANK GUARANTEE (Physical BG/e-BG) 
Or 
ii) INSURANCE SURETY BOND 
 
I)  
2.12 Benefit to MSME Applicable 
 
 Benefits under PPP 2012 for MSEs are applicable only for 
(a) Goods produced and (b) Services provided by MSEs. In 
this regard, OM dated 9.11.2016 and its subsequent 
amendment/clarifications issued by MSME from time to 
time regarding definition of Goods and Services may be 
referred. MSE benefits shall not be applicable to 
Trader/Dealer of Goods. Further, MSE benefits shall also 
not be applicable for Works Contracts. 
 
 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) having Udyam 
Registration only for Goods produced and Services 
rendered shall only be eligible for MSE benefits. 
 
 In case of an upward change in terms of investment in 
plant and machinery or equipment or turnover or both, and 
consequent re-classification, an enterprise shall continue to 
avail of all non-tax benefits of the category (micro or small 
or medium) it was in before the re-classification, for a 
period of three years from the date of such upward change. 
 
The benefits to the participating Service Providers under PPP 
2012 shall be applicable irrespective of product (Goods / 
Services) categories for which bidder is registered as MSE. 
2.13 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) who are holding valid Udyam Registration and are 
manufacturer of the offered Product or Service (Primary Product / Service - in case of bunch 
bid with total value wise evaluation) and give specific confirmation to this effect at the time of 
bid submission and claim EMD exemption and whose credentials are validated online through 
Udyam Registration website of Ministry of MSME and also through supporting document 
uploaded during bidding process and validated by the Buyer. 
 
Therefore ,  For availing exemption Benefit in EMD and Award , Bidders are requested to 
submit only “UDYAM REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE”. Other MSE related documents like 
“Udyog Aadhar Memorandum (UAM) or “NSIC certificate” etc or any other certificate issued 
by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises as per MSMED Act 2006 , for goods 
produced and services rendered will not be considered as a MSE exemption certificate. 
2.14 Make in India Policy 
 
APPLICABLE (For details refer ITB) 
'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this 
tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The 
bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before submission of their 
bids." 
  Minimum Local Content = 50.0%. 
2.15 Preference to Class-I Local 
Suppliers 
Class-I Local Suppliers only are eligible to participate in this 
tender.  
2.16 Contract Period Contract shall be valid for a period of 60 months with a 
provision for extension up to Three (3) Months at the 
discretion of NTPC on same rate, terms & conditions on 
mutual consent.  
2.17 Pre-Bid Conference Date & 
Time (if any) 
Not Applicable 
2.18 Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
2.19 Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
2.20 EVALUATION  OVERALL LUMPSUM BASIS 
2.21 Whether Joint Venture/ 
Consortium/ Associate / 
Collaborator  Permitted? 
NO 
2.22 Splitting of quantity (MSE) Not allowed. 
2.23 Reverse auction Not Applicable  
2.24 Mobilization Period 07 days from Issue of LOA (Tentatively)  
2.25 “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date 
of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on online portal”. 
 
2.26 Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on GeM Portal only. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno-Commercial 
Proposal” and “Price Proposal” online (https://gem.gov.in), within the bid submission date and 
time as mentioned on Gem Portal. Only Techno-Commercial proposals will be opened on the date 
and time mentioned on Gem Portal. 
 
Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://gem.gov.in. 
 
2.27 Formats of Bid security (Physical BG/e-BG/Insurance surety bond) shall be as 
per attached in Bidding documents ONLY. Any other formats shall be liable 
for rejection.  
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG, 
BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.  
2.28 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be 
eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
3.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS: 
 The bidders who wish to participate in the bidding shall satisfactorily establish that they fulfill 
the following Qualifying Requirements: 
3.1 TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
 3.1.1 The bidder should have executed “deployment of at least one Ambulance on a 24x7 
basis for any ‘Organisation / Hospital / Medical Centre’ for a continuous period of not 
less than one (1) year in a single contract” within the preceding seven (7) years prior to 
the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening. 
 
3.1.2 The bidder should have executed the work(s) of “managing / providing / 
deployment” of Ambulance(s) within the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening, in any of the following manner; 
 
a. One(1) order having executed value not less than Rs. 22 lakh 
OR 
b. Two(2) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 14 lakh each. 
OR 
c. Three(3) orders having executed value not less than Rs. 11 lakh each. 
 
 Notes for Clause 3.1 above: 
 
1. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
2. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date 
of Techno-Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified 
by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in 
support of qualifying requirements. 
4. "For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount 
only shall be considered. In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should 
provide the break – up of basic value and taxes. 
5. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, cost of fuel 
charges would not be considered, if reimbursable in the reference contract. 
6. Multiple orders placed against single “rate contract / Agreement / MoU” shall 
be treated as one work for the above purpose. 
 
3.2 FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
  
3.2.1) The Average Annual Financial Turnover (AATO) of the bidder during preceding 
three (03) consecutive financial years as on the date of Techno - Commercial 
bid opening should not be less than Rs. 28 Lakh (Rupees twenty-eight lakh 
only). 
3.2.2)  In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 2.1 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements at Cl. No. 2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such 
Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such 
an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the 
Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the 
execution of the contract by the bidder in case of award. 
3.2.3) In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the 
bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification: 
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the 
bidder along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements 
of the Holding Company.. 
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual 
Financial Statements of the Holding Company. 
3.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last financial year  as on the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results 
certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant  shall be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the 
audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a  certificate  would be required from CEO/CFO as 
per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial 
results of the company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
commercial bid opening and the certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying financial parameters is not available.  
 
3.3   NOTES for Clause 3.2 above: 
 
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. 
Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the 
extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
 
2. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
4.0 Please refer ITB 5.4 and Attachment-3: submit all the documents in support of Technical 
Qualification Requirements (such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract 
Agreements/ Client Certificates etc.), duly certified and verified for authenticity from 
Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection 
Agency (TPIA).  
 
a) Proprietorship and Partnership Firms are required to submit Undertaking/Certificate 
of authenticity from Third Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) only.  
 
b) Bidder as Company can submit   Certification/Undertaking for authenticity of 
documents either from Independent Statutory Auditor of their company or from 
specified TPIA.   
 
c) If any of the Submitted Reference work executed by Bidder are  directly awarded to 
them by NTPC or Subsidiary / JV companies of NTPC ;  then for those reference 
works only  , Bidder shall not be required to submit  Client Certificate (s) or 
Certificate of  authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor or specified TPIA.    
 
d) The undertaking/Certificate of   authenticity issued from   Independent Statutory 
Auditor or specified TPIA   submitted   for any reference work/s in earlier   tender/s 
floated from NTPC; can be submitted by the bidder in the present tender or 
any  future tenders subject to fulfilment of QR criteria as stipulated in NIT. The 
same would be acceptable subject to conditions mentioned at NOTE at A) above.   
 
e) Further if any of the reference work submitted in the present tender, have already 
been submitted and verified/accepted  by NTPC in earlier tender/s , details of   NIT 
no, tender inviting authority etc of that   earlier tender/s are to be filled up by the 
bidder in Attachment-3 of the present tender. The same may  be accepted for the 
purpose of authenticity, subject to confirmations & fulfilment of qualifying 
requirement of the present tender.   
 
f) However, if required by NTPC, the bidder shall have 
to   submit Undertaking/Certificate of   authenticity issued from   Independent 
Statutory Auditor or specified TPIA   for any of the reference work(s) submitted in 
earlier tender.    
 
g) Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess 
the credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ 
subsidiaries / group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances 
warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the Employer.   
 
h) The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include 
but not be limited to the assessment/verifications  of office/ facilities/ banker's/ 
submitted reference works in lieu of credentials. A negative determination of such 
assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid. 
i) The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be 
considered to ascertain the bidder’s compliance to the specified qualifying 
Requirement (QR). The Employer at its discretion may seek any clarification and/or 
documentary evidence only for the reference works as mentioned their Bid. 
However, no change or substitution of the reference works by new/additional plant 
for conforming to the specified qualifying Requirement shall be sought, offered or 
permitted”. 
 
 * Note: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account  
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to 
Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
5.0   IMPORTANT GUIDELINES REGARDING TENDER: 
a. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
     Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
     However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or 
in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
b. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
c. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the Gem Portal (https://gem.gov.in). The Bidder would 
be required to register on the website. 
     Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
d.  Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. Minimum Local 
     Content % for this package is 50%. 
 
e. NTPC reserves right to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS 
published in the portal AT ANY TIME. NTPC also reserves the right to extend/change the bidding 
schedule through publishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situation demands so 
AT ANY TIME. The corrigendum as decided by NTPC and deemed fit would be published in the 
portal as per provisions therein. This prevails over the relevant provisions elsewhere in the bid 
document. The corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal will be binding on 
Bidders and it will be assumed that the information contained therein will have been taken into 
account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders are advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting 
of Amendments/Corrigendums, if any. 
f.  The bid document consists of the followings : 
     Section 
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
III General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
IV Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
V Technical Specifications/Scope of Work, Drawings and Quality Plans 
VI Bill/Schedule of Quantities (BOQ/SOQ) 
VII Forms and Procedures 
 
g.  Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section-V, shall supplement/ amend the General Conditions 
of Contract (GCC) Section-IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a conflict, the 
provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
h.  THIS IS A NO DEVIATION TENDER, WHICH MEANS- NO DEVIATION, WHATSOEVER, IS 
PERMITTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO ANY PROVISIONS OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS. 
 
i.   Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be 
qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening. 
  
6.0 Address for communication: 
Manager/AGM (C&M/1) 
NTPC Limited, Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-I, 
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515308/0771-2515267 
 
Email: vkbhojwani@ntpc.co.in, amitksingh@ntpc.co.in or at office. 
 
Websites: https://gem.gov.in or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
7.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 
 
  