 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 1 of 10 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)   
for 
Issue of pond ashon Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from NTPC Talcher Super Thermal Power Station 
 
Ref No. EOI No. PA/TSTPS/2026-27/01      Date: 29.06.2026 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part1:  General Information. 
ii. Part2:Format for Submission of Response to EOI.  
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
iv. Part 4:Terms &Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B. 
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder , on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as 
acceptable.Undertaking and Declaration To be executed on a non -judicial stamp paper of 
appropriate value and shall be notarized.s  
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 2 of 10 
 
Part 1:  General Information 
General Details about NTPC Talcher Super Thermal Power Station: 
NTPC TSTPS Kaniha , located at located at Kaniha Block of District, Angul having a total 
installed capacity of 3010 MW, is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk 
power. 
To utilize the fly ash  in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant 
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification  and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material , 
NTPCTSTPS intends to issue some of its Pond Ash on free of cost and on first come  first 
served basis, with transportation cost being borne bythe Bidders. 
To facilitate this, NTPC TSTPS invites Expressions of Interest  for above, for a period of 01 
(One) year, from its 2X 500 MW Stage-1 units and 4 X 500 MW Stage-2 units. Further details 
regarding this Expression of Interest (EoI) areas follow:  
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC TSTPS invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above,frominterested Bidders, for 
utilization of pond ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification , in the 
prescribed formats (Part-2& Part-3).  
Total quantity of fly ash in MTfrom the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location  Total Quantity 
offered for EoI  Period of Supply 
NTPC TALCHER SUPER THERMAL 
POWER STATION,  
Address- 
PO: Deepsikha, Dist: Angul, Odisha -
759147 
66,00,000MT  
01 year 
(Tentatively from 01.08.2026 
to 31.07.2027) 
 
How to apply: 
Interested Bidders  desirous of receiving pond ash from NTPC TSTPS as per the terms and 
conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents 
and duly filled in enclosed “ Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI ” and “Part 3: 
Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”  to the E  – Mail address autstps@ntpc.co.in on or 
before 17:00 hrs. of 20.07.2026.  
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable. 
2. Company registration as may be applicable. 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with 
documentary proof as applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self -certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bidis liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 3 of 10 
 
 
Allocation of pond ash Quantity: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI ,pond ash shall be allocatedto various bidders 
free of cost and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity is exhausted .  
However, collectingfrom NTPC `s issue location and transportation thereafter, will be in the 
scope of the bidder only. 
 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation against both the Au ction Process and this EoI , 
then the Ash quantity  allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that Bi dder,only after the 
Bidder completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process 
 
 
Daily allocation of pond ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day 
wise requested quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month. In case 
any bidder proposes to collect the ash through Rail (subject to Rail Loading Facility 
being available at the station), same shall also be indicated in this requisition. 
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability. NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous 
month. 
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the  above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non -mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, 
allocate such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge 
(EIC)-NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
Pond ash shall be issued from the , the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / Pond(s) or other 
location as decided by EIC of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Successful Bidder(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the 
rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. 
This adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of 
lifting of entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
  
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 4 of 10 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue of pond ash from Talcher Super Thermal Power Station  
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm)  
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
2.3 
Nature of Business:   
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year  
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility  
Whether capable of handling pond ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
3 
Registered Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 5 of 10 
 
4 
Communication Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
6 Pond ashquantity soughtagainst EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
Figures:  
Words: 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last pond ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No).   
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT)  
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
8 Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport fly ash if issued.  
9 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the pond ash, if issued. 
SN  Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 6 of 10 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
11 Any other relevant information  
 
 
 
For and on behalfof   
 
      
Date:  
Place: 
     Signature: 
     (AuthorizedRepresentative)  
 
Name: 
 
Designation: 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 7 of 10 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
UNDERTAKING 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value and notarized) 
 
I / We _________________________________________ (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the 
EoI requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those 
contained in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity 
with all the terms and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if 
any. In the event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be 
considered as part and  parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract 
Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi - Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, 
nor have been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash i ncluding Plant entry and exit, Weighment, 
Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization 
of adequate number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement 
conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry 
out the above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those 
regarding safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc . I / We shall 
fulfill all applicable statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of 
the contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the 
area as directed by EIC with  the objective of smooth and safe execution of the 
collection / lifting and utilization of Pond ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / 
Subsidiaries from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the 
course of  execution and for  future obligations (if any) by way of omission or 
commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization 
Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Not ification. I/We also agree to submit 
on Half Yearly basis , an affidavit, on “Actual U tilization” of the issued ash for the 
purposes / Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I  / 
we fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are  true 
and authentic  to the best of my/our knowledge and I/we understand and accept that 
if at any stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we 
are liable for disqualification from this EoI and also  liable for any other penal action 
that may arise due to the above. 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 8 of 10 
 
DECLARATION 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value and notarized) 
 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for pond ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of 
the EoI. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of 
the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to  Railways, haulage 
charges and other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in 
Environment friendly manner, will be in my / our scope. While I / we understand that 
the Station may at its discretion, consider part / full facilitation for li fting of pond ash 
thru rail – mode / road cum rail mode, subject to feasibility and cost economics, I / we 
also understand that I /we shall have no claim whatsoever, in this regard. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis,to the parties  who have 
submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect  within the stipulated time 
of submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of 
all specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We sha ll be required to submit Refundable 
Security Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 
10,000, along with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will 
be refundable as per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI 
acceptance along with requisite security deposit and other specified documents 
required by the respective station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to 
cancel the pond ash allocation to me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated pond ash through auction process also 
from same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / 
We understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost 
basis through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash 
quantity allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this 
EoI will be issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature ofauthorizedperson) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ……….    Name ……………………………… 
       ……………………………………… 
Place:  …………………….   Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
       Name of the Company: …….……. 
       …………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
       …………………………………….…. 
       Company Seal: …..………………… 
     ………….…………………………….. 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 9 of 10 
 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Pond ash shall be issued from, the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / 
Pond(s) or other location as decided by EIC, to the Successful Bidders 
(or their authorized representatives as may be agreed to in writing by 
the EIC based on approval by HOP), considering  Operational and 
Safety issues of Ash dyke.  
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental  and Sustainability  
Guidelines etc and carry out their activities in full compliance with the 
same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission 
from TPP. 
4. General facilitating measures for lifting of Ash viz. Common Approach / 
ramp, general area fugitive dust suppression, weighment of Ash etc 
shall be in the scope of NTPC. However,  job specific facilitation viz. 
approach / ramp to specific allocated area and local fugitive dust 
suppression shall be in the scope of the recipient agency. 
5. Bidders eligible for collecting Pond ash shall apply for permission for 
the closed / covered Trucks / other suitable transportation medium that 
they propose to deploy and submit the same to EIC along with 
specified documents like registration, license, ins urance etc, who shall 
arrange to verify the same and issue permission as per prevailing 
procedure adopted at the Station.  
6. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can 
schedule the lifting of Ash from Designated storage area by different 
agencies, which shall be binding upon the agencies. The schedules 
and deployment may be worked out / altered based on periodic 
meetings between concerned stakeholders. Agencies shall mobilize 
with adequate manpower, vehicles and machinery within 15 days of 
issue of communication from the EIC.   
7. T&Ps, excavation, loading and transportation of Ash shall be in the 
Scope of the recipient(s). 
8. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders 
and verifiable by TPP.  
9. Non – compliance shall att ract penal actions ranging from fine to 
termination of contract / agreement / issue of Pond ash as decided by 
EIC  
10. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful 
Bidder(s). 
11. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the 
deployed Vehicles shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and 
also when new and / or additional  vehicles are deployed) and 
thereafter as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. The 
vehicles shall be in fit condition for safe operation. 
12. Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper 
of requisite value, certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond 
ash, in adherence with the provisions of the extant Notification and 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 10 of 10 
 
other applicable statutory regulations. This  affidavit, in prescribed 
format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
13. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non -
compliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, 
Guidelines and Statutory provisions  by the successful Bidder  or its 
representative / agent ,during the course of execution and for  future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission ,the Successful 
Bidder shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An 
indemnity bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
14. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in 
case information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 