 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION - I 
INVITATION  FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
                                      
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CO
RPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
I
NVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FO
R 
BAL
ANCE OF PLANT (BOP) PACKAGE 
F
OR 
T
ELANGANA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
LOCATED AT 
DISTT. PEDDAPALLI, STATE OF TELANGANA, INDIA 
 (International Competitive Bidding) 
T
ender Id No.: 2026_NTPC_108903_1 
Bidding Document No.: CS-9592-001C-2     Date: 27.06.2026 
A. NT
PC invites on-line bids for Balance of Plant (BOP) Package for Telangana STPP
Stage- II (3X800 MW), at Government e- procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC ) at
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Open tender basis adopting Single Stage
Two Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-
II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work
briefly mentioned hereinafter.
B. BRI
EF SCOPE OF WORK
T
he Brief scope of work for the subject Balance of Plant (BOP) Package for
Telangana STPP Stage- II (3X800 MW) is as follows:
D
esign, Engineering, Manufacture, Supply, Construction, Erection, Testing &
Commissioning works for the BOP Package for Telangana STPP Stage-II (3 X 800
MW) on the basis of single point responsibility, completely covering the following
activities and services in respect of CST, ACW ,SACW system including equipment,
Aux. CT associated civil works, Raw Water system, Water treatment plant (including
Pre-Treatment plant, DM Plant, chlorination (ClO2) plant, Misc. Pumps Coal slurry
settling pond, Zero Liquid Di scharge System, ACW Chemical Treatment Systems)
& LETP (including Wastewater RO system) and associated civil works including
Effluent quality Monitoring System(EQMS), Coal and Biomass Handling Plant, Fuel
oil (LDO) unloading , storage system & pressurizing system, Fire Detection &
Protection System within plant boundary (including BTG  switchyard & AHP areas)
, Air Conditioning & Ventilation Systems, Station Piping and APRDS
Interconnection, Generator Busduct (IPBD) and associated equipment & MV
Busduct (including BTG area), Auxiliary Transformer Indoor and outdoor (oil filled
upto 16MVA) (including BTG area), MV Switchgear including  BTG area & relay
networking of entire plant, LT Switch gear , LT busduct ( including BTG area), HT 
Power Cables (including BTG area) , LT Power and Control Cables (including 
balance BTG area) ,  DG Set of Main Plant, Cabling, earthing and lightning 
protection (including Balance BTG area, Illumination (including BTG area), Battery 
and battery charger, Construction power, Solar PV plant on roof tops of buildings ( 
including BTG area), Fireproof cable penetration sealing system (including BTG 
area), Pipe / Cable Trestles & racks, all Control & Instrumentation(C&I) with 
DDCMIS including HMIPIS, Civil, Structural & Architectural works of earthing 
mat/grounding, Miscellaneous Buildings and other civil works including site levelling 
of all plant areas except BTG, Plant Roads & Drains, underground facilities like 
drainage, sewerage, dewatering, trenches, Packaged sewerage treatment plant, 
Rain Water Harvesting etc covered under the specifications: 
a. Basic Engineering of the plant including preparation of Plant Definition
Manuals;
b. Detailed design of all the equipment and equipment system(s) including civil,
structure steel & Architectural works included in bidder's scope.
c. Providing engineering drawings, equipment sizing & performance data,
instruction manuals, as built drawings and other information;
d. Compliance with statutory requirements and obtaining clearances from
statutory authorities, wherever required;
e. Complete manufacturing including shop testing/type testing;
f. The complete Civil, structural and architectural works
g. Packing and transportation from the manufacturer's works to the site including
logistic studies, insurance, customs clearance & port clearance, port charges,
if any.
h. Receipt, storage, preservation, handling and conservation of equipment at the
site;
i. Fabrication, pre-assembly, if any, erection, insurance, testing, commissioning
and completion of facilities including putting into satisfactory operation all the
equipment including successful completion of initial operation;
j. Performance and guarantee tests along with initial operation;
k. Supply of spares on FOR site basis;
l. Reconciliation with Customs Authorities;
m. Satisfactory conclusion of the Contract;
n. Insurance and other requirements
o. The plant shall be ZLD compliant
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents.
C. N
TPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity.
D.  D
etailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the
Bidding Documents, which are available at the GePNIC (e -tender) portal at
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under:
Issuance of IFB 27.06.2026 
Start of Documents Sale 27.06.2026 onwards 
Pre Bid Conference Date 14.07.2026 
 
Last Date of Receipt of Query 14.07.2026  
Bid submission deadline [Envelope-I 
(Techno–Commercial) & Envelope-II (Price) 
bid] 
30.07.2026 up to 1300 Hrs. (IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for 
Envelope-I (Techno–Commercial) bid 30.07.2026 at 1530 Hrs. (IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for Envelope-II 
(Price) bid 
Shall be intimated separately 
after opening of Envelope-I 
(Techno-Commercial) Bids. 
 
Note: *Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for 
updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at 
GePNIC portal of NTPC. 
 
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 50,00,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Fifty  Crore only) or USD 5 ,156,300 (US Dollars Five Million 
One Hundred Fifty-Six Thousand Three Hundred only) in the form as stipulated 
in the Bidding Documents. 
           
Bidders participating through Consortium route, the total Bid Security shall 
be furnished collectively by the Consortium partners as below: 
 
Lead Partner of Consortium shall submit the Bid Security for at least the minimum 
amount of INR 37,50,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Thirty-Seven Crore Fifty Lakh 
only) or USD 3,867,200 (US Dollars Three Million Eight Hundred Sixty-Seven 
Thousand Two Hundred only). 
 
The other Partner of Consortium shall submit the Bid Security for at least  the 
minimum amount of INR 5,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Five Crore only) or USD 
515,700 (US Dollars Five Hundred Fifteen Thousand Seven Hundred Only). 
 
The Lead Partner and the other partner shall collectively furnish the total bid 
security for an amount of INR 50,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Fifty Crore only) 
or USD 5,156,300 (US Dollars Five Million One Hundred Fifty -Six Thousand 
Three Hundred only). 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER 
AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE 
PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.  
 
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested 
Bidder from the e- Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited 
under e- tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 
key is mandatory for e- tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have 
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e- tendering. 
Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC C lass-3 key from agencies authorized by 
Govt. of India. The e -Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted 
ONLY at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.  
        
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders 
may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from 
Class-II Local Supplier / Non-Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of 
India has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged 
in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation 
for Bids under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such 
case no bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (Contract Services) / Sr. Manager (Contract Services), 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA   
Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91 9650991817/7588018972 
E-mail: amitk@ntpc.co.in / vivekanandk@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or 
www.ntpc.co.in  
 
 
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
Appendix-I 
APPROVED QR FOR BOP PACKAGE OF 
TELANGANA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT  STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the bidder shall 
also meet the criteria specified below at 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3 .0 (as applicable), and 2.1.0 or  
2.2.0 (and 2.3.0, if applicable): 
1.0.0 Technical Criteria  
1.1.0 The Bidder should have executed on Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) basis, a) 
Coal / lignite handling plant, and b) Water / waste water treat ment plant or DM plant, including 
associated civil & structural works and Electrical systems for the above equipments & systems as 
a single package, catering to atleast 500 MW capacity in one (1 ) Coal based/Lignite based power 
plant, which is in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening. 
. 
In case the Bidder has not done Engineering of the package covered above on its own, it shall 
tie-up with an Architect Engineering firm meeting the Engineeri ng Experience requirements 
indicated at Notes for 1.0.0 clause (a)(i). 
1.2.0  The Bidder (itself or along with its subsidiary(ies)) sh ould have executed on Engineering, 
Procurement and Construction (EPC) basis, minimum one (1) no. C oal based/Lignite based 
power plant of installed capacity not less than 250 MW comprising of a) Main Power Plant and 
b) Balance of Plant (having Coal / lignite handling plant, Water  / waste water treatment plant or
DM plant) facilities, including associated civil works, Structu ral and Electrical systems for the
above equipments and systems as a single package, which is in s uccessful operation for a
period of not less than one (1) year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening.
In such a case, the Bidder shall necessarily engage an Architect Engineering firm meeting the 
Engineering Experience requirements indicated at Notes for 1.0.0 clause (a)(i) 
1.3.0 Bidder shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of two (2) corporate entities and shall 
collectively meet the following qualification requirements. How ever, each consortium partner 
shall necessarily be required to meet any one of the following requirements specified at 
clauses 1.3.1, 1.3.2. 
1.3.1 One of the Consortium partners should have 
(i) designed, manufactured/ got manufactured, erected/supervised er ection and
commissioned/ supervised commissioning of at least one (1) number integrated bul k
ma
terial handling plant (essentially comprising of conveying and crushing) including all
associated structural steel works and electrical works of 1000 Metric tons per hour
rated capacity or above for coal or other minerals of equivalen t volumetric capacity
which should have been in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1)
year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening.
 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AND 
 
(ii) designed, manufactured/ got manufactured, supplied, erected/sup ervised erection and 
commissioned/ supervised commissioning including all associated  s t r u c t u r a l  s t e e l  
works and electrical works of at least one (1) number cantileve r boom type, slewable 
and luffable, bucket wheel type t raveling Stacker-cum-Reclaimer suitable for stacking 
and reclaiming at a rated capacity of 1000/1000 Metric tonnes p er hour (or above) for 
coal or other mineral of equivalent volumetric capacity which s hould have been in 
successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year  prior to the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
The Consortium partner who meets the requirements of only claus e 1.3.1(i) above can also 
participate provided it collaborates / associates with a firm which fully meets the requirements 
specified at clause 1.3.1(ii) above. In such a case, the Consortium partner shall be required to 
furnish a ‘Letter of Support’ from Collaborator/ Associate for successful performance of the 
relevant system valid for a period of seven (7) years or up to the end of defect liability period of 
the contract whichever is later, as per the format enclosed wit h the bidding documents. The 
‘Letter of Support’ shall be submitted along with the techno co mmercial bid, failing which the 
Bidder (Consortium) shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected. 
 
1.3.2 One of the Consortium partners should have designed, supplied, erected and 
commissioned at least one (1) number water/waste-water treatmen t plant having 
capacity of not less than 1000 Cu.m/hr, comprising of clarifiers/tube settlers/thickeners 
or a combination thereof including civil works. The plant shoul d have been in 
successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year  p r i o r  t o  t h e  d a t e  o f  
techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
In case the reference plant has been designed by a party other than the consortium 
partner itself, then the consortium partner can also participat e, provided it engages a 
party/design agency who has independently designed minimum one( 1) water/waste- 
water treatment plant having capacity of not less than 1000 Cu. m/hr, comprising of 
clarifiers/tube settlers/thickeners or a combination thereof and which should have been 
in successful operation for at least one (1) year prior to the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening. 
 
In such a case, the Consortium partner shall be required to furnish a ‘Letter of Support’ 
from the party/design agency for successful performance of the water & waste-water 
treatment plant, as per the format enclosed with the bidding documents, and valid for a 
period of seven (7) years or up to the defect liability period of the contract whichever is 
later. The ‘Letter of Support’ shall be submitted along with th e bid, failing which the 
Bidder (Consortium) shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected. 
1.3.3 The Consortium partners will be required to jointly enter into a legally enforceable 
Consortium Agreement and furnish the agreement along with the T echno-commercial 
Bid. Each of the Consortium partners shall be responsible and l iable to the Owner to 
perform  all  contractual obligations  related to their respective  scope  and associated  
 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
works (limited joint and several responsibility), valid for a period of seven (7) years from 
the date of formation of the Consortium or up to the end of def ect liability period of the 
contract whichever is later, as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents. 
However, the lead partner of the consortium shall be jointly & severally responsible and 
liable to the Owner to perform all contractual obligations incl uding the contractual 
obligations of all consortium partners. The number of executant s of the Consortium 
Agreement should not exceed two (2). Submission of Consortium A greement is a 
mandatory requirement and non-submission shall lead to rejection of the bid. 
 
1.3.4 Atleast one of the Consortium partners should individually meet  the Engineering 
Experience requirements indicated at Notes for 1.0.0 clause (a) (i) and shall be 
responsible for integration of Coal Handling, Water Treatment and other systems under 
BOP package and their interface with SG & TG systems in addition to their scope in the 
consortium. In case none of the Consortium partners meets the i ndicated Engineering 
Experience requirements individually, then in such a case the l ead consortium partner 
shall engage an Architect Engineering firm meeting the same Eng ineering Experience 
requirements. 
 
 
NOTES FOR 1.0.0: 
 
(a) For 1.1.0, 1.2.0 & 1.3.0  
 
(i) Engineering  Experience 
 
Bidder / Consortium partner / Architect Engineering firm should have done Engineering 
for minimum one (1) no. Coal based/Lignite based power plant of at least 500 MW Unit 
capacity comprising of at least a) Coal / lignite handling plan t, b) Water / wastewater 
treatment plant or DM plant, including associated civil works, Structural and Electrical 
systems for the above equipments and systems as a single package. 
 
(ii) In case the bidder/Lead Consortium partner is required to engag e an Architect 
Engineering firm, then the Bidder/Lead consortium partner shall  furnish a Letter of 
Undertaking from such firm as per the format enclosed in the bi dding documents. The 
Bidder/Lead consortium partner can propose maximum of three Arc hitect Engineering 
firms along with Letter of Undertaking from such firms in its b id, however, in such a 
case bidder/Lead consortium partner shall give an Undertaking a s per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents that in case of award, bidder  shall finalize one 
qualified Architect Engineering Firm among the proposed Architect Engineering Firm(s) 
as included in its bid. 
 
The Letter(s) of Undertaking shall be submitted along with the techno-commercial bid, 
failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected. 
 
(iii) The term Engineering covered in 1.0.0 above means the following: 
 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Pre-award engineering of systems associated with the package su ch as basic sizing 
calculation, layout, etc. 
(b) Post-award engineering for systems associated with the package,  review of major 
design documentation such as design / sizing calculations, layo ut, plant start-up and 
control philosophy, schematic diagram and other documentation related to Mechanical, 
Civil, Electrical and C&I design. 
 
(b) For 1.2.0 
 
(i) In case the Bidder is a Holding Company meeting the require ments stipulated under  
clause 1.2.0 on the strength of collective experience of itself  and its subsidiary(ies), 
then the Bidder shall be required to submit the Deed of Joint U ndertaking executed by 
it and all such Subsidiaries for successful performance of the Contract. The Deed of 
Joint Undertaking shall be submitted along with the techno-comm ercial bid, failing 
which the Bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected. 
 
Further in case of award, an on-demand bank guarantee shall be furnished by all such 
subsidiaries, for a value equally divided amongst them and aggregating to 0.3% of the 
total contract price. 
 
(c) For 1.3.0 
 
i) All the Consortium partners shall identify one of the partners as the “lead partner”. Lead 
partner should be a corporate entity registered in India under the Companies Act 2013. 
Lead partner shall necessarily meet the requirement of 1.3.1 or 1.3.2 
 
ii) Consortium partners shall collectively be required to furnish “ Contract Performance 
Security” as specified in bidding  documents regardless of their  share and role in the 
Consortium. However, each Consortium partner shall necessarily furnish at least 5% 
of the “Contract Performance Security” as specified in bidding documents. 
 
iii) Consortium partners (including the lead partner) shall be collectively required to submit 
additional Bank Guarantees (BGs) for a total amount of 2% of to tal contract price as 
specified in bidding documents for successful integration of Co al Handling, Water 
Treatment and other systems under  B O P  p a c k a g e  a n d  i t ’ s  i n t e r f a ce with SG & TG 
systems. However, each Consortium partner shall necessarily fur nish Bank 
Guarantees (BGs) for at least 0.1% of the total contract price for successful 
integration/interfacing. 
 
iv) The work executed by the Consortium will be considered for the purpose of the 
qualification specified at 1.3.1, 1.3.2 provided the same Conso rtium partner who has 
executed the qualifying works is getting associated in the Consortium of this package. 
 
v) The Lead partner shall be authorized to incur liabilities and receive instructions for and 
on behalf of any and all partners of the Consortium. 
 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.0.0 Financial Criteria:  
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder (Except for Consortium as per Route 1.3.0) 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the 
date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than  INR 5785 Million (Indian 
Rupees Five Thousand Seven Hund red Eighty Five Million only) i. e. INR 578.5 Crores 
or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulat ed turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as o n the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required  to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the 
Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, 
pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for th e execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.1.2 Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the  bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder does not meet the 
Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of N et worth based on the strength 
of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiari es of its Holding companies 
wherever applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of t he Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) o f the Holding Company, in 
combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share 
capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be le ss than 75% (seventy five 
percent) of their respective paid up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be l ess than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial  statements on stand-alone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the  Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of 
its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per t he format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial  year as on the date of techno 
commercial bid opening are not available, certification of financial statements from a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable. In ca se, Bidder is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant c ertifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed i n the bidding documents 
stating that the Financial results of the Company are under aud it as on the date of Techno- 
commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
2.2.0 Financial Criteria for the Consortium (as per Route 1.3.0) 
2.2.1 The average annual turnover of the consortium collectively, in the preceding three (3) financial 
years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should n ot be less than INR 5785 
Million (Indian Rupees Five Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty Five Million only) i.e. INR 
578.5 Crores or in equivalent foreign currency.  
Further, average annual turnover of the lead partner of the con sortium in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of techno- commercial bid op ening shall not be less than 
75% of the total annual turnover requirement specified for cons ortium as above. Further, 
other Consortium Partner should individually meet at least 10% of the total annual turnover 
requirement specified for consortium as above. 
For meeting financial criteria, all the Consortium partners shall consider the same set of three 
consecutive Financial Years. 
2.2.2 Net worth of all consortium partners in combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred 
percent) of their paid-up share capital as on the last day of t he preceding financial year. However 
individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seve nty five percent) of their respective 
paid up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be l ess than 75% of the 
respective paid up share capitals and Y1, Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
2.2.3 In case any consortium partner is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand- 
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial stat ements of the consortium 
partner can be considered acceptable provided the consortium partner furnishes the following 
further documents on substantiation of its qualification: 
 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the consortium partner along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of  the Holding Company of the 
consortium partner. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company of the consortium partner. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, the consort ium partner(s) is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant c ertifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate 
would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed i n the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the Company are under aud it as on the date of Techno- 
commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
2.3.0 Financial Criteria for the Collaborator / Associate (as per 1.3.1) 
2.3.1 The average annual turnover of the Collaborator / Associate, in  the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening, should not be less than INR 
578 Million (Indian Rupees Five Hundred Seventy Eight Million only) i.e. INR 57.8 Crores 
or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case the Collaborator / Associate does not satisfy the avera ge annual turnover criteria, 
stipulated above on its own, i ts Holding Company would be requi red to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on 
the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share 
capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Collabora tor / Associate would be 
required to furnish along with bidder's Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from 
the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board R esolution as per the 
format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional an d irrevocable financial 
support to the Collaborator/Associate to honour the terms and conditions of the Undertaking in 
case of award of the Contract to the Bidder. 
2.3.2 Net Worth of the Collaborator/ Associate as on the last day of the preceding financial year 
should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its paid-up s hare capital. In case the 
collaborator/ Associate does not meet the Net Worth criteria on  its own, it can meet the 
requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiar y (ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding companies wherever a pplicable. In such a case, 
however the Net worth of the Collaborator/ Associate and its Su bsidiary (ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be 
less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share c apital. However individually, 
their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy-five perce nt) of their respective paid-up 
share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
 
TELANGANA STPP, STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
BOP PACKAGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net Worth which should not be l ess than 75% of the 
respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.3.3 In case the Collaborator / Associate is not able to furnish its  audited financial statements on a 
stand-alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financia l statements of the 
Collaborator / Associate can be considered acceptable provided the Collaborator / Associate 
further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator / Associate 
along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per t he format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the Consolidated Annual Report of the Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial  year as on the date of techno 
commercial bid opening are not available, certification of financial statements from a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall also be considered acceptable. In ca se, the Collaborator(s) / 
Associate(s) is not able to submit the Certificate from a pract icing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial paramet ers, the audited results of thr ee consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evalu ating the financial parameters. 
Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as pe r the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Company are under audit as on the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
 
NOTES FOR 2.0.0: 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss acco unt and miscellaneous 
expenses to the extent not adjus ted or written off, if any, sha ll be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meani ng ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act  2013. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to 
the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 