 
Salient Technical Features 
PROJECT  : TELANGANA STPP STAGE-II (3X800 MW) 
PACKAGE NAME  : BOP PACKAGE 
 
"Salient Technical Features of the equipment/systems/services covered in the Bidding 
Document No. CS-9592-001C-2 are mentioned below. These Salient Technical Features are 
mentioned only to facilitate the prospective bidders to prima- facie understand the 
requirements under the tender and shall not in any way limit or alter the scope of work and 
technical features/specification of equipment/ systems/ services covered in the Bidding 
Documents. Detailed provisions in regard of scope of work and technical featur es/ 
specification of equipment/ systems/ services, contained in the Bidding Documents shall 
be final and binding." 
A BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
The Brief scope of work for the subject BOP Package for Telangana STPP Stage-II (3X800 MW) 
is as follows: 
• Design, Engineering, Manufacture, Supply, Construction, Erection, Testing & 
Commissioning works for the BOP Package for Telangana STPP Stage-II (3 X 800 MW) 
on the basis of single point responsibility, completely covering the following activities and 
services in respect of CST, ACW ,SACW system including equipment,  Aux. CT associated 
civil works, Raw Water system, Water treatment plant (including Pre-Treatment plant, DM 
Plant, chlorination (ClO 2) plant, Misc. Pumps Coal slurry settling pond, Zero Liquid 
Discharge System, ACW Chemical Treatment Systems ) & LETP (including Wastewater 
RO system) and associated civi l works including Effluent quality Monitoring 
System(EQMS), Coal and Biomass Handling Plant, Fuel oil (LDO) unloading , storage 
system & pressurizing system, Fire Detection & Protection System within plant boundary 
(including BTG  switchyard & AHP areas) , Air Conditioning & Ventilation Systems, Station 
Piping and APRDS Interconnection, Generator Busduct (IPBD) and associated equipment 
& MV Busduct (including BTG area), Auxiliary Transformer Indoor and outdoor (oil filled 
upto 16MVA) (including BTG area), MV Switchgear including  BTG area & relay 
networking of entire plant, LT Switch gear , LT busduct ( including BTG area), HT Power 
Cables (including BTG area) , LT Power and Control Cables (including balance BTG area) 
,  DG Set of Main Plant, Cabling, earthing and lightning protection (including Balance BTG 
area, Illumination (including BTG area), Battery and battery charger, Construction power, 
Solar PV plant on roof tops of buildings ( including BTG area), Fireproof cable penetration 
sealing system  (including BTG area) , Pipe / Cable Trestles & racks , all Control & 
Instrumentation(C&I) with DDCMIS including HMIPIS , Civil, Structural & Architectural 
works of earthing mat/grounding, Miscellaneous Buildings and other civil works including 
site levelling of all plant areas except BTG, Plant Roads & Drains, underground facilities 
like drainage, sewerage, dewatering, trenches, Packaged sewerage treatment plant, Rain 
Water Harvesting etc covered under the specifications: 
Further brief scope of work also includes: 
a. Basic Engineering of the plant including preparation of Plant Definition Manuals; 
b. Detailed design of all the equipment and equipment system(s) including civil, structure 
steel & Architectural works included in bidder's scope. 
c. Providing engineering drawings, equipment sizing & performance data, instruction 
manuals, as built drawings and other information; 
d. Compliance with statutory requirements and obtaining clearances from statutory 
authorities, wherever required; 
e. Complete manufacturing including shop testing/type testing; 
f. The complete Civil, structural and architectural works 
g. Packing and transportation from the manufacturer's works to the site including logistic 
studies, insurance, customs clearance & port clearance, port charges, if any. 
h. Receipt, storage, preservation, handling and conservation of equipment at the site; 
i. Fabrication, pre- assembly, if any, erection, insurance, testing, commissioning and 
completion of facilities including putting into satisfactory operation all the equipment 
including successful completion of initial operation; 
j. Performance and guarantee tests along with initial operation; 
k. Supply of spares on FOR site basis; 
l. Reconciliation with Customs Authorities; 
m. Satisfactory conclusion of the Contract; 
n. Insurance and other requirements 
o. The plant shall be ZLD compliant 
Note: Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
 
 