P a g e  1 | 3 
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
         EOC NOIDA 
  INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
    FOR 
SWITCHYARD PACKAGE FOR TELANGANA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE- II (3X800MW), TELANGANA 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Bidding Document No: CS-9592-572A-9 Date: 01.07.2026
1.0 NTPC invites on -line bids at Government e -procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at  website- 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope -I: Techno- 
Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as  
per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
The scope of work is for the Design, supply, erection, testing and commissioning of 400KV SF6 
Gas Insulated Substation/Switchyard at Telangana STPP, Stage -II including the extension of 
the 400KV GIS bays at the existing Telangana STPP  Stage- I Switchyard as shown in single 
line diagram and other tender drawings  along with GIS building and Switchyard control room 
building. The 400kV switchyard employs one and half breaker scheme. The scope of work shall  
comprise, but not limited to the design, engineering, manufacture, testing and  inspection at 
manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, transportation, transit  insurance, delivery to site, 
unloading, storage and equipment erection including  associated civil and structural works. 
Further it shall include the cabling, lighting,  lightning protection, AC & Ventilation of Switchyard 
Control room, Electrical lab  equipment, earthing, construction power & lighting, association of 
sub vendors if  any in the erection, supervision, site testing, inspection and commissioning of 
400kV switchyards. Further, it shall also include civil works associated with transformer / Bus 
reactor/Series Reactors. 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in Section -VI: Technical Specifications of the 
bidding documents. 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity. 
4.0 Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding  
Documents, which  are available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under: 
Issue of IFB 01.07.2026*
Start of Documents download Date 02.07.2026*
Pre Bid Conference date & time 10.07.2026* at 1100 hrs (IST)
Last date for receipt of queries from  bidders 
(if any)** 
11.07.2026* upto
15:00 Hrs (IST) 
Link for Pre-Bid Conference
GePNIC Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_109672
P a g e  2 | 3 
Bid receipt date & time for  Envelope-I 
(Techno–Commercial) & Envelope -II (Price) 
bid 
29.07.2026*upto 15:00 Hrs (IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for  Envelope-I 
(Techno–Commercial) bid 
30.07.2026*at 15:00 Hrs (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Price bid Shall be intimated after opening 
of Techno-Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Nil 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated
bidding schedule of the Tender.
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the  
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC”. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 5,00,00,000/ - (Indian 
Rupees Five Crore only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A  SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E­BG/ THROUGH 
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -
BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e- Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e -tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The 
use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class -3 key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. 
Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to 
participate in  e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class -3 key from agencies 
authorized by Govt. of India.  The e -Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY at 
the e- Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
Qualifying Requirements are enclosed at Annexure-A to IFB. 
8.0 Only 'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 
and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids." 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
 
P a g e  3 | 3 
 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be 
eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines 
of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
11.0  Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe that 
bidder is considered qualified. 
 
12.0  Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the  
capabilities and  capacity of the Bidder / its Collaborators / Associates / Subsidiaries / 
Group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
 
13.0  NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
(IFB) without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
13.0 Address for Communication 
DGM (CS)/ Senior Manager 
(CS) NTPC Limited, 
CC&M, 6th Floor, 
Engineering Office Complex 
(EOC), A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA, 
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, 
(UP) India, PIN – 201301 
Email: maheshwranand@ntpc.co.in / rajendrakumartiwari@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0120-494-6563, 0120-494-6525 
 
Websites: www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or 
www.ntpc.co.in or 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
 
14.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE 
Complex, 7, Institutional Area, 
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 
110003 
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
Annexure-A to IFB
Qualifying Requirements for Switchyard Package of Telangana STPP-II (3X800MW) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the Bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated here under:  
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
The Bidder should have designed, Supplied, constructed / erected, tested and commissioned at 
least one (1) no of Gas Insulated substation/switchyard of 400 kV or above voltage class having 
at least two (2) bays which should have been in successful operation for a period of minimum 3 
months prior to the date of techno commercial bid opening. 
 NOTE: For the purpose of qualifying requirement, one no. of bay shall be considered as 
comprising of at least one Circuit Breaker (3 Phase), two disconnector (3 Phase)  and current 
transformers (3 Phase)  
2.0 Financial Criteria: 
2.1   The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years as on the 
date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than ₹ 86.50 Crores (Indian 
Rupees Eighty Six Crores and Fifty Lacs Only) or in equivalent foreign currency.  
 In case a Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, 
a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
2.2    Net worth should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of the bidder’s paid up share capital 
as on the last day of the preceding financial year. In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth 
criteria on its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding company wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should 
not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up share capital. However individually, 
their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of their respective paid up 
share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective 
paid up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid up share capitals 
(Page 1  of  2)
                                                                                                                                                     
2.3   In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity basis, 
the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered acceptable 
provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification: 
 
(i)  Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies of 
the audited consolidated financial statements of Holding Company. 
                
 
 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating 
the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are 
under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
  
 
NOTES: 
 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous 
expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 
 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act-2013. 
(iv) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior 
to the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
 
 
(Page 2  of  2)