NTPC Ltd 
1 CEG No CWE-01 
2 CEG DESCRIPTION Hiring of Instrument for Performance testing of Boiler, Turbine, 
Cooling Tower, ESP related to O&M consultancy assignments. 
3 Responsibility 
Centre 
VDC 
4 Enlistment 
category 
CATEGORY-1 
5 Brief scope of work Supply of instruments and skilled manpower for onsite 
measurement, Data collecƟon and providing data associated with the 
any of the following performance tesƟng acƟvity:   
1.1. Boiler Performance TesƟng: Measurement of parameters of 
Boiler for eﬃciency calculaƟon, APH performance calculaƟon, ﬂue 
gas oxygen mapping etc. with oﬄine test instruments meeƟng ASME 
standards.  
1.2. Turbine Performance TesƟng: Measurement of parameters of TG 
cycle for Heat rate calculaƟon, Heaters performance calculaƟon, 
Condenser Performance calculaƟon with oﬄine test instruments 
meeƟng ASME standards.  
1.3. Performance tesƟng of Cooling Tower: Measurement of Cooling 
tower test parameters with oﬄine test instruments meeƟng CTI 
standards.  
1.4. ESP performance Test: Measurement of ESP emission test 
parameters with oﬄine test instruments meeƟng USEPA standards.  
1.5. Energy Audit/APC Audit: All parameters as speciﬁed with the 
objecƟve to assess performance of the equipment/system/cycle in 
thermal power staƟon.  
Coverage: 
Power GeneraƟng units of 20 MW and above, Steam GeneraƟng 
Units of 100 TPH or above.  
Geographical LocaƟon: Anywhere in India.  
Note: The detail scope of work, list of instruments, skilled manpower 
& other Terms & condiƟons would be speciﬁed separately in the 
Tender against the speciﬁc requirements. 
6 TECHNICAL 
Qualifying 
Requirement 
Applicant should meet the Qualifying Requirement either at Sl. no. 
1.0 and 3.0 (OR) Sl no. 2.0 and 3.0 as menƟoned below:  
Sr no 1.0 
Applicant should have carried out following works in Coal Based 
Thermal Power unit of 200 MW or above capacity units in the 
preceding 7 years as on the last date of submission of documents. 
Supplied Oﬄine Test Instruments as speciﬁed below for any two of 
the following tests. 
i. Portable Flue Gas Analyzer and Thermocouples for Boiler
Efficiency Test.
ii. Data logger, Power Analyzer, Pressure Transmitters and
Temperature sensors for Heat rate Test of Steam Turbine.
iii. Pitot Tube, Precision RTDs, Thermometers and
Psychrometer for Performance Test of Cooling Tower.
iv. Power Analyzer and Ultrasonic Flow Meter for Audit of
Auxiliary Power Consumption.
v. Isokinetic sampling kit for Performance Test of ESP.
Sr no 2.0 
Applicant should have carried out following works in Coal Based 
Thermal Power unit of 200 MW or above capacity units in the 
preceding 7 years as on the last date of submission of documents. 
Conducted Performance Tests with Oﬄine Test Instruments for any 
two of the following tests. 
i. Boiler Efficiency Test
ii. Heat rate Test of Steam Turbine
iii. Performance Test of Cooling Tower.
iv. Audit of Auxiliary Power Consumption.
v. Performance Test of ESP
Sr no 3.0 
Average Annual Turnover for last 3 years of the Applicant should not 
be less than INR 50 lakhs. 
*In case where audited results for the last ﬁnancial year as on the last 
date of submission of documents are not available, the ﬁnancial 
result cerƟﬁed by a pracƟcing Chartered Accountant shall be 
acceptable. In case, Applicant is not able to submit the cerƟﬁcate 
from pracƟcing Chartered Accountant cerƟfying its ﬁnancial 
parameters, the audited result of three consecuƟve ﬁnancial years 
preceding the last ﬁnancial year shall be considered for evaluaƟng 
the ﬁnancial parameters. Further, a CerƟﬁcate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format available in the VDC Portal 
staƟng that the ﬁnancial results of the applicant are under audit as 
on the last date of submission of documents and the cerƟﬁcate from 
the pracƟcing Chartered Accountant cerƟfying the ﬁnancial 
parameters is not available.
Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
7 Similar work. Same as Technical Qualifying Requirement 
8 Documents to be 
submiƩed 
1. Copy of Purchase order with scope of work in support of QR
sr no 1 & 2
2. Proof of work completion (Client certificate) in support of
QR sr no 1 & 2
3. Audited Financial Statements* in support of QR sr no 3
*In case where audited results for the last ﬁnancial year as 
on the last date of submission of documents are not 
available, the ﬁnancial result cerƟﬁed by a pracƟcing 
Chartered Accountant shall be acceptable. In case, applicant 
is not able to submit the cerƟﬁcate from pracƟcing 
Chartered Accountant cerƟfying its ﬁnancial parameters, the 
audited result of three consecuƟve ﬁnancial years preceding 
the last ﬁnancial year shall be considered for evaluaƟng the 
ﬁnancial parameters. Further, a CerƟﬁcate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents staƟng that the ﬁnancial results of 
the applicant are under audit as on the last date of 
submission of documents and the cerƟﬁcate from the 
pracƟcing Chartered Accountant cerƟfying the ﬁnancial 
parameters is not available.
Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual 
turnover.
4. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF &
GST/Service Tax registration certificate.
5. PAN, PF and GST registration certificates
6. Any other documents in addition to the above which the
applicant wants to submit to get enlisted.
7. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during
evaluation.