NTPC LTD  
      VDC, USSC, VDC-RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS  
1 MEG No. 62MEG-01 
 
2 Brief description of MEG Supply of Oil Filtration machines, with or without Vacuum de -
hydration systems, for Fire Resistant Fluids (FRFs), Turbine 
Oil, Lube oils & Hydraulic oils filtration purpose. 
 
Note: Oil filtration machines for Transformer Oils are not 
included under this enlistment. 
3 Responsibility Centre USSC-VEC 
4 Technical specifications: Oil filtrations machine with all standard accessories  for
filtration of Fire-resistant fluids (FRF), Turbine Oil, Lube oil 
and Hydraulic Oils. 
 
Details of Oil filtrations machine construction / capacity and 
parameters required such as Pump capacity, required number
of filtration stages, applicability & requirement of vacuum 
dehydration system, NAS value, Moisture reduction etc. will 
be provided in the data sheet by the indenter in PR depending
on the specific requirement. 
 
Note: Oil filtration machines for Transformer Oils are not 
included under this enlistment. 
5 Technical Qualifying 
Requirements (QR) 
1.0 Qualifying Requirements: 
The applicant who wishes to participate in the enlistment 
shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated here 
under: 
 
Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 The Applicant should have Manufactured Oil filtration 
machine of Minimum 10 LPM (Litres Per Minute) capacity 
for Fire Resistant Fluids (FRF) / Turbine Oils / Lube Oils / 
Hydraulic Oils. 
 
AND 
 
1.2 The applicant should have supplied at least One (01) 
such oil filtration machine to any Industry / Organization, in 
India or outside India, in the preceding five (05) years 
reckoned as on the Last Date of submission of application 
during which period the supplied model of oil filtration 
machine should have completed successful operation of at 
least One (01) Year. 
6 Document to be submitted 
by Vendor in support of 
meeting QR 
Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the 
stipulated Qualifying Requirements as stated above. 
 
Relevant and legible Purchase Order (PO) copies with 
detailed scope of supply , BOQ, terms and conditions , 
issued within the  last Five (05) years reckoned as on the 
Last date of submission of application in support of award 
and copy of Client's Completion certificate/RA Bill/ final 
deviation statement from the concerned client /copies of 
invoice to establish successful execution as per QR. 
 
NTPC can ask for more documents if felt necessary. 
7 Additional Documents to 
be submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following 
documents are required to be submitted by the applicants 
applying for enlistment: - 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
similar work during previous five years from the Last 
date of submission of application and Copy of 
Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation 
Statement from the concerned client in support of 
successful execution of jobs against each of the POs to 
be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss 
statement for the previous three completed financial 
years reckoned from the Last date of submission of 
application. In case the audited documents are not 
ready / available, then certified copy by a registered 
practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate if applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
5. List of all required Tools & Plants with populations 
available with the applicant. 
Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit. 
8 Notes 1. Similar work  means “Manufacture & supply” of Oil 
filtration machine for Fire resistant fluids/ Turbine 
Oils/Lube Oils/Hydraulic Oils. 
2. Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value 
is composite (i.e. including GST etc.), the applicant 
has to give break-up of composite PO value 
mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any separate re-
imbursement / escalation will not be considered. 
3. Physical assessment of shortlisted applicants, 
regarding suitability for the enlistment, shall be made 
as per requirement/finalised by NTPC. 
4. All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per 
the Special terms & conditions (STC) available at VEC 
portal “vdc.ntpc.co.in" 
 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/UploadedFiles/Documents/STC.
pdf 
 
 
9 
 
Quality Plan 
 
As applicable through individual PR 
 
10 
 
Category of Enlistment 
 
Category-1 
 
 
 
 
 