 
NTPC LTD 
Unified Shared Service Centre (USSC), Raipur  
 
1 CEG No. MTP-01 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Enlistment for Assistance in Vibration analysis and condition monitoring jobs -
CAT-1 
3 Responsibility Centre Vendor Enlistment Cell (VEC) 
4 Brief scope of work Scope of Work (SOW) : 
Item 10. Vibration Analysis  
The SOW includes three parts: 
i) 10.10 MPDEP00GN621 DEPTT <> MAN DEP-INDIAN EXPRT 
Deployment of Vibration Analyst  for Vibration Analysis and 
resolving high vibration AND/OR balancing problems of rotating 
equipment.  
ii) 10.20 MPCMI00GN979 Cond Monitor Instt (<>) DATA 
COLLEC. 
Deployment of Data Collector  for Condition Monitoring data 
collection involving vibration measurement and assistance for 
Vibration analysis. The data collector has to collect any data related to 
condition monitoring on instructions of Engineer in charge. 
iii) 10.30 MPSMD05GN155 SPL.M/P.DEP (MOBILISATION) 
DATA ANLYS&RE. Vibration Expert for Turbogenerator (TG) 
for Vibration Analysis and resolving vibration related problems of 
Turbo-generator as per Station requirement & a detailed report to be 
submitted.  
Coverage:  
The SOW includes Machines in Main Plant (Boiler / Turbogenerator / 
Transformer Yard), Off sites, CHP -Coal Handling Plant, Ash Handling 
Plant, DM/PT Plant, CWPH, CT Fans, and other machines inside and 
outside plant premises of NTPC station. 
10.10 MPDEP00GN621 Deployment of Vibration Analyst &   
10.20 Cond Monitor Instt (<>) DATA COLLEC. 
A: Vibration Measurement and Analysis: 
1. The Plant equipment will be categorized as Critical & Non -Critical; 
accordingly Vibration Data collection Schedule will be prepared by EIC. 
2. For each equipment Vibration measurement points will be defined and 
measurement will be done in three directions (H/V/A) to collect Vibration 
Amplitude-Displacement Pk -Pk, Velocity m/sec. (Pk/RMS) and 
Acceleration mm/Sec.2, High frequency component for detecting Bearing 
condition. 
3. Vibration data will be collected by data collector through analyzer in 
frequency Domain (FFT) and Time Domain (Time Wave Form) and 
stored in Analysis software. Vibration analysts may also be deputed for 
data collection as per requirement. 
4. High Vibration Analysis includes Spectrum Analysis, Cross Phase 
Analysis through Dual Channel or key phasor imbibed with dual channel. 
5. Based upon the Vibration measurement, Vibration  analyst will 
report machine condition as 'Normal' 'Marginal' & 'Critical' as per ISO 
10816. 
B: In-situ balancing of rotary machines: 
1. Based upon equipment condition vibration analyst should be capable to 
diagnose unbalance problems and should be able of carrying out in situ 
balancing of equipment. 
2. Balancing may be required in single plane or double plane. 
3. Vibration Analyst will specify the Balancing weight and point of 
addition of the weight. 
4. NTPC shall provide the balancing weights and necessary fitters / 
welders with required tools to carry out balancing services under the 
supervision of the Vibration Analyst. 
5. Mobilization of expert within 72 hrs or less depending upon the 
criticality of the equipment or as directed by EIC, if site deployed analyst 
is unable to do required work. 
6. The Vibration Analyst job will be deemed to be completed only when 
the normal vibration level (to the satisfaction of Engineer -In-Charge) is 
achieved. 
C: To maintain vibration level to a normal level 
1)  Based on Condition/health of equipment Vibration analyst will 
submit suitable recommendations for carrying out corrective action for 
reducing the vibration level to a normal level. 
2) As per his recommendation, Maintenance will be carried out and 
Vibration Analyst must check vibration of equipment to ensure 
Vibration has reduced to normal level as per ISO 10186 and prepare 
action taken report. 
3) The Vibration Analyst job will be deemed to be completed only when 
the normal vibration level (to the satisfaction of Engineer -In-Charge) 
is achieved. 
4)  Data collectors and Vibration Analyst will be required for scheduled 
data (routine data) collection, generally in day shift and in normal 
working hours. However, EIC or MTP executives can extend the 
retention of manning provided up to completion of work as and when 
required. 
5)  Unscheduled data collection as per instruction of EIC on holidays, 
Sundays, beyond normal working time, trial runs during overhauling, 
turbine rolling. No extra payment will be paid for such work. 
6) The contractor must depute the vibration analyst & Data collectors for 
complete duration of the work and for round -the-clock service. Party 
must intimate and take acceptance for the persons  deputing for the 
subject work. If for any reason Contractor replaces the person, then 
the acceptance for the same is to be taken from EIC. 
 
10.30 MPSMD05GN155 SPL.M/P.DEP (MOBILISATION) DATA 
ANLYS&RE  
1. Turbine Vibration Measurement in triaxial direction using 16 Channel 
Vibration Analyzer during pre-overhaul/post overhaul survey or in case of 
requirement as per EIC instruction. 
2. The deployed expert should be capable of fetching (Buffer output) data 
from NTPC installed Turbo-Supervisory system to 16 channel analyzers. 
3. Deployed expert must be capable of understanding & analyzing all -
important diagnostic plots including trend plot, bode plot, polar plot, full 
spectrum, Shaft centerline plots, cascade plots etc. 
4. He should be aware of TSI parameters, online vibration monitoring 
system GE 3500, Shinkawa, Infosys, Maggitt VM600 or any other system. 
 
General Technical Requirement: 
i. For 10.10 Deployment of Vibration Analyst (01 NO.) Graduate 
Mechanical/Electrical Engineer with Category -II /ISO Level -II 
certified, Vibration Analyst with minimum 3 years’ experience in 
vibration analysis will be stationed at site.  
ii. For 10.20 Vibration data collector  (HSW/SSW/USW): (Site 
may specify, no. of data collectors, skill required, qualification & 
experience) 
Ex: A Diploma Engineer (Mechanical/Electrical) with 
minimum Two years’ experience in Vibration data collection 
on field will be stationed at site 
iii. For 10.30 Turbo -Generator Vibration Analysis (01 no .) 
Graduate Mechanical/Electrical Engineer with Category -III /ISO 
Level -III certified Vibration Analyst with minimum 05 Year 
experience in Turbine Vibration Analysis.  
iv. Deputed persons should be able to communicate in English or 
Hindi to site persons. 
v. Contractor has to provide two numbers of calibrated Dual Channel 
Vibration Analyzers having route-based data collection capability 
to collect vibration data in Time domain and Frequency domain. 
The Contractor should mobilize more than two Dual Channel 
Vibration Analyzer as per work requirement/EIC instructions at no 
extra cost. 
vi. The Dual Analyzer should have-  
a. at least 16-bit A/D converter with Dynamic range greater than 
90dB,  
b. Spectral resolution with selectable number of FFT lines with 
the highest no. of lines not less than 12800 and should be 
capable of selecting linear and logarithmic scales for amplitude 
and frequency.  The Dual channel to be used for data collection 
and analysis should be acceptable to Engineer In Charge. 
vii. The calibration certificate of Dual Channel Analyzer should be 
valid and traceable to National Accredited Lab. 
viii. Contractor should provide Computer System/Laptop of minimum 
specification to support analysis software of vibration analyzer for 
analysis and report preparation. The Analysis software should be 
capable of producing trend of collected data. It should be abl e to 
store two years data-Spectrum and Amplitude for each equipment 
at each measurement location in triaxial direction. 
ix. The availability of Vibration analyst is be ensured in line with 
instructions of EIC. In the event of absence of deputed Engineer 
from site alternate engineer shall be deputed during the period of 
such absence with the acceptance of EIC. 
x. For Turbo -Generator Vibration Analysis, Contractor should 
provide 16 channel Vibration Analyzer, capable of fetching 
(Buffer output) data from NTPC installed Turbo -Supervisory 
system to 16 channel analyzer. The Vibration Expert must be 
capable of understan ding & analyzing all -important diagnostic 
plots including trend plot, bode plot, polar plot, full spectrum, 
Shaft centerline plots, cascade plots etc 
xi. Payment for the Turbo -Generator Vibration Analysis expert 
(ITEM NO: 10.30) shall be on Lumpsum basis. “To and fro” 
journey/ Conveyance accommodation charges are in contractor’s 
scope. NTPC guest house may be provided subject to availability 
on chargeable basis. 
 
5  Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
Technical Criteria: 
 
The applicant should have executed the works of " Vibration 
analysis/Balancing" of Turbine/Turbogenerator in a Thermal Power 
generating unit of capacity 195MW or above during the preceding five (5) 
years from the last date of submission of application.  
6 Document to be 
submitted by Vendor in 
support of meeting QR 
 
Relevant and legible PO copies with detailed scope of work, terms and  
conditions, BOQ POs (executed within last Five (5) years reckoned as on 
the last date of submission of application in support of award and copy of 
Client's Completion certificate/RA Bill/ final deviation statement from the 
concerned client /copies of invoice to establish successful execution as per 
QR. 
NTPC may ask for shortfall documents if felt necessary. 
7 Additional Documents 
to be submitted 
 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical  
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be  
submitted by the applicants applying for enlistment: 
 
1. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar  work 
during previous five years from the last date of submission of application 
and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/Final  Deviation Statement 
from the concerned client in support of successful  execution of jobs 
against each of the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the  
previous three completed financial years reckoned from the date of  
application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available 
/applicable, then certified copy by a registered practicing 
Charteredaccountant may be submitted. 
3. UDYAM Registration / NSIC / SSI / MSME registration  certificate if 
applicable. 
4. PF and GST registration certificate 
5. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicantwants 
to submit. 
 
NTPC may ask more documents if felt necessary. Also, all 
documents/facilities can be verified/ assessed if required. 
 
8 Notes  
1. Similar work means ‘the works including Vibration  analysis/condition 
monitoring jobs and in situ dynamic balancing jobs  for Rotary 
machines/Turbine/Turbogenerator in Thermal/Hydro/Nuclear Power 
Plant within the preceding five years from the  last date of submission of 
application. 
2.Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite  (i.e. 
including taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break -up of composite PO 
value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Any separate reimbursement/ 
escalation will not be considered. 
3. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the applicant should 
have achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total  contract is 
started earlier and/or is not completed/closed.  
4. All other terms & conditions of enlistment are as per the Special  terms 
& conditions (STC) available at VDC portal vdc.ntpc.co.in 
"https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/Uploaded Files/Documents/STC.pdf” 
 