 
Page 1 of 11 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)   
for 
Issue of Pond Ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from NTPC NKSTPP  
 
Ref No. EOI No. PA/NKSTPP/04                 Date: XX.XX.XXXX 
 
 
This expression of interest (EOI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1:  General Information. 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI.  
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B.  
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
  
 
Page 2 of 11 
 
Part 1:  General Information 
General Details about NTPC NKSTPP:  
NTPC NKSTPP (3 x 660 MW), located near the village Tandwa in the Simaria subdivision, District 
Chatra, Jharkhand, at present Unit #1&2 (660 MW X 2) is under operation , engaged in the 
business of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the Ash generated at NKSTPP in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions 
of extant MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of ash as resource material, 
NTPC NKSTPP intends to issue its POND ASH on free of cost and on first come first served 
basis, with transportation cost being borne by the Bidders. 
To facilitate this, NTPC NKSTPP invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 01 
(One) year, from ash silo. Further details regarding this Expression of Interest (EOI) are as follow:  
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC NKSTPP invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Bidders, for 
utilization of Pond Ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the prescribed 
Formats (Part-2 & Part-3).  
Total quantity of Pond Ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location  Total Quantity 
offered for EOI  Period of Supply 
NTPC North Karanpura Super Thermal 
Power Project   
Address-  
PO: Tandwa, Distt:Chatra, Jharkhand -
825415 
79,70,000 MT  
12 Month 
(01.09.2026 to 31.08.2027) 
 
How to apply 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving Pond Ash from NTPC NKSTPP as per the terms and 
conditions of this EOI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents 
and duly filled in enclosed “ Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “ Part 3: 
Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder” to the E – Mail address 
ashutilizationnkstpp@ntpc.co.in on or before 17:00 hrs. of XXth MONTH 20XX.  
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary 
proof as applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self -certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
 
Allocation of Pond Ash Quantity: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EOI, Pond Ash shall be allocated to various bidders 
free of cost and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity is exhausted.  
However, collecting from NTPC`s issue location and transportati on, thereafter, will be in the 
scope of the bidder only. 
 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation against both the Auction Process and this EOI, 
then the Ash quantity allocated against this EOI shall be issued to that Bidder, only after the 
Bidder completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process 
 
 
Daily allocation of Pond Ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day wise 
requested quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month.  
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability. NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous 
month. 
3. All allocated bidders (or trans portation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC) -
NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
Pond Ash shall be issued from the, the designated area of Plant (HCSD Silo) or other location 
as decided by EIC of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Successful Bidder(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the 
rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This 
adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of 
entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
  
 
Page 4 of 11 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue of Pond Ash from Plant (HCSD Silo) of North Karanpura Super Thermal Power 
Project, NTPC Ltd.  
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm)  
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
2.3 
Nature of Business:   
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year  
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility  
Whether capable of handling Pond Ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
3 
Registered Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
Page 5 of 11 
 
4 
Communication Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
6 Pond Ash quantity sought against EOI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
Figures:  
Words: 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond Ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No).   
If yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT)  
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
8 Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport Pond Ash if issued.  
9 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the Pond Ash, if issued. 
SN  Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
 
Page 6 of 11 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
11 Any other relevant information  
 
 
 
For and on behalf of    
 
      
Date:  
Place: 
     Signature: 
     (Authorized Representative)  
 
Name: 
 
Designation:
 
Page 7 of 11 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
UNDERTAKING 
 
I / We _________________________________________ (Name of the firm / individual) 
hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EOI requirements 
and accept all terms and conditions of the EOI including those contained in all 
corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the terms 
and conditions of the EOI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In th e event of 
allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EOI document shall be considered as part and 
parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever 
applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / w e are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor 
have been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by th e directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, Sequence 
of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization of adequate 
number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement conducive to 
environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out the above as 
per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding 
safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable 
statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the contract. 
I / We agree to coope rate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area 
as directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / lifting 
and utilization of Pond Ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries 
from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any 
applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution 
and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us or my / 
our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization Avenues 
as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly 
basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes / Avenues as 
identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / we 
fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EOI are true and 
authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any 
stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for 
 
Page 8 of 11 
 
disqualification from this EOI and also liable for any other penal action that may arise due 
to the above. 
  
 
Page 9 of 11 
 
 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EOI by NTPC is not a commitment for Pond Ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the 
EOI. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the 
conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways/ Road transportation, Freight charges payable to Railways/ 
Road transportation, haulage charges and other charges as applicable in case of 
transportation by rail/ road in Environment friendly manner, will be in my / our scope. 
While I / we understand that the Station may at its discretion, consider part / full facilitation 
for lifting of Pond Ash thru rail mode/ road mode / road cum rail mode, subject to feasibility 
and cost economics, I / we also understand that I /we shall have no claim whatsoever, in 
this regard. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, to the parties who have 
submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of  
submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of all 
specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as per the 
conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non -receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along with 
requisite security deposit and other specified doc uments required by the respective 
station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the Pond Ash allocation to 
me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated Pond Ash through auction process also from 
same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EOI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EOI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ……….    Name ……………………………… 
       ……………………………………… 
Place: …………………….             Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
       Name of the Company: …….……. 
       …………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
       …………………………………….…. 
 
Page 10 of 11 
 
       …………………………………….…. 
       Company Seal: …..………………… 
     ………….…………………………….. 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Pond Ash shall be issued from, the designated area of Plant (HCSD Silo) 
or other location as decided by EIC, to the Successful Bidders (or their 
authorized representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC based 
on approval by HOP), considering Operational and Safety issues of Ash 
dyke.  
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines etc 
and carry out their activities in full compliance with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from 
TPP. 
4. General facilitating measures for lifting of Ash viz. Common Approach / 
ramp, general area fugitive dust suppression, weighment of As h etc shall 
be in the scope of NTPC. However, job specific facilitation viz. approach / 
ramp to specific allocated area and local fugitive dust suppression shall be 
in the scope of the recipient agency. 
5. Bidders eligible for collecting Pond Ash shall apply for permission for the 
closed / covered Trucks / other suitable transportation medium that they 
propose to deploy and submit the same to EIC along with specified 
documents like registration, license, insurance etc, who shall arrange to 
verify the same and issue permission as per prevailing procedure adopted 
at the Station.  
6. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule 
the lifting of Ash from Designated storage area by different agencies, which 
shall be binding upon the agencies. The schedules and deployment may be 
worked out / altered based on periodic meetings between concerned 
stakeholders. Agencies shall mobilize with adequate manpower, vehicles 
and machinery within 15 days of issue of communication from the EIC.   
7. T&Ps, excavation, loading and transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope 
of the recipient(s). 
8. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders and 
verifiable by TPP.  
9. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination 
of contract / agreement / issue of Pond Ash as decided by EIC  
10. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Bidder(s).  
11. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed 
Vehicles shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new 
and / or additional vehicles are deployed) and thereafter as and when 
 
Page 11 of 11 
 
demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles shall be in fit condition 
for safe operation. 
12. Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of 
requisite value, certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond Ash, in 
adherence with the provisions of the extant Notification and other applicable 
statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed format, shall be submitted 
on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
13. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non -
compliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, 
Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the successful Bidder or its 
representative / agent, during the course of execution and for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful 
Bidder shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An 
indemnity bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
14. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 