Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 2 of 46  
  
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)    
for  
Fly Ash supply to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) / Local Users  
(situated within 100 Kms radial distance from station) engaged in ash 
based products manufacturing as per Para D(4) Inserted to The MoEF&CC  
Notification on Ash Utilisation from Coal or Lignite Thermal Power Plants 
Dated 31.12.2021 Amended an 01.01.2024, on concessional rates, ‘as is 
where is’ basis, from NTPC Nabinagar  
  
  
Ref No. EOI No-DFA/NSTPS/2026-27/01       Date: 19.07.2026  
  
  
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: -  
  
 
i Part 1: General Information for EoI. 
  
ii Part 2: Terms & Conditions of EoI.  
 
iii Part 3: Format for Submission of Response to EoI. 
 
iv Part 4: Annexures and Formats.  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
N.B.   
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the applicant, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere to deem the request as acceptable.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 3 of 46  
  
Part 1: General Information for EoI  
1. General Details about NTPC Nabinagar:   
NTPC Nabinagar, located at Aurangabad, Bihar having a total installed capacity of 1980 
MW, is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power.  
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant  
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, 
NTPC Nabinagar has reserved a certain percentage of i ssuable quantity of fly ash 
separately for supply to micro and small enterprises (MSEs) and Local Users engaged in 
ash-based product manufacturing namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash 
aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, pa nels [as per para D(4) inserted to the 
MoEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 
31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024] at concessional rates. The supply of fly ash shall be 
made on “as is where is” basis, with transportation cost being borne by the Applicants.  
To facilitate this, NTPC Nabinagar invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 
01 (One) year, from its 1980 MW Stage-1 units. Further details regarding this Expression 
of Interest (EoI) are as follows:   
2. EXPRESSION OF INTEREST:  
NTPC NABINAGAR invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested 
Applicants, for utilization of dry fly ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC 
Notification, in the prescribed formats (Part-3 & Part-4).   
Total quantity of fly ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per 
details given hereunder -  
Power Stations / Location  
Total Quantity 
offered for EoI  
Concessional 
Rates  
Period of 
Supply  
NTPC NABINAGAR THERMAL POWER 
STATION,  
Address-AURANGABAD, BIHAR 
3.6 LMT  INR 15 / MT  
01 Year  
(August 2026 
to  
July 2027)  
  
3. How to apply  
Interested Applicants desirous of receiving dry fly ash from NTPC NABINAGAR as per the 
terms and conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with 
specified documents and duly filled in enclosed “Part 3 : Format for Submission of 
Response to EOI ” and “Part 4 : Annexures and Formats ” to the E – Mail address  
audnstps@ntpc.co.in before  17:00 hrs. of 02nd August 2026. Contact Person Kaushal 
Kumar Thakur AGM (AUD & Civil O&M) and contact no 9450963022. for any clarification.:.  
4. Eligibility for EoI Participation:  
All applicants, fulfilling the following criteria, are eligible to participate in the EOI process:  
4.1. The applicant must have a valid Udyam Registration Certificate   
MSE registered under Trader(s) and / or Service provider(s) shall not be allowed to 
participate under this EOI.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 4 of 46  
  
(As per MSME Notification S.O. 2119 (E) dated 26th June 2020, from 1st June 2022,  
Udyam registration shall be the ONLY valid MSME Registration Document. Except  
Udyam Registration Certificate no other registration documents will be considered 
for MSEs exemption and benefits for participation, until GOI extends the validity of 
other MSEs registration certificate.)  
Or  
The applicant must be Local Users situated within the 100 km radius of the plant  
4.2. The applicant must be a manufacturer, engaged in making ash-based products like 
bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, 
pipes, boards, panels as mentioned in the para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC 
Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 
31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024.  
In order to meet the above requirement, applicant is required to submit relevant 
documents like Consent to Operate Order from CPCB or SPCB / Registration 
certificate from the concerned state industries / revenue / e tc. / License to Work as 
a Factory / Pollution Clearance Certificate / Documentary evidence for the 
production capacity of the plant or any other relevant documents for establishing 
that the applicant is manufacturer of one or more aforesaid ash-based products  
4.3. The applicant who submits an Undertaking as per prescribed format (Annexure – 
01), executed on non-judicial Stamp Paper, duly Notarized by a notary public), duly 
signed by authorized signatory of the applicant, inter- alia confirming the following:  
i. The applicant is a micro and small enterprise or a local ash user [within 100 km 
of NTPC NABINAGAR], engaged in manufacturing ash -based products [as 
mentioned in the para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on ash 
utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 31.12.2021 amended 
on 01.01.2024].  
ii. The applicant shall utilize / ensure utilization of ash (bought under the subject 
EOI) under eco-friendly avenues as per extant MoEF&CC Notification.  
4.4. In compliance to serial number 4 (a) above, t he successful applicants, during 
execution, shall be required to submit a Notarized Affidavit as per prescribed format  
(Annexure – 02), on half yearly basis regarding ‘actual utilization of already issued 
ash’.  
  
5. Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 3 - Format for Submission of 
Response to EoI” and “Part 4: Annexures and Formats”:  
• Valid Udyam Registration Certificate under manufacturing category.  
(As per MSME Notification S.O. 2119 (E) dated 26th June 2020, from 1st June 2022,  
Udyam registration shall be the ONLY valid MSME Registration Document. Except 
Udyam Registration Certificate no other registration documents will be considered 
for MSEs exemption and benefits for applications, unless until GoI extend the validity 
of other MSEs registration certificate).  
or  
Self-declaration by Local Users situated within the 100 km radius of the plant, 
confirming that the ash will be utilized solely for ecofriendly purpose.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 5 of 46  
  
• Relevant document(s) for establishing the applicant to be a manufacturer of one or 
more ash based product namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash 
aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as mentioned in the para 
D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on ash  utilisation from coal or lignite 
thermal power plants dated 31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024.  
• Relevant Documents for establishing the applicant to be a manufacturer of one or 
more ash-based product as mentioned in the para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC 
Notification can be like:  
o Consent to Operate Order from CPCB / SPCB, if applicable  
o No Objection Certificate from State Pollution Control Board for establishing 
manufacturing Unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable.  
o Undertaking submitted to State Pollution Control Board for Establishing  
Manufacturing Unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable  
o Registration certificate from the concerned state industries / revenue departments 
/ etc., as may be applicable.  
o License to Work as a Factory, as may be applicable.  
o  Pollution Clearance Certificate, as may be applicable.  
o Prime Minister Employment Generation Program 'Loan Sanction' Letter for 
establishing a manufacturing unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable.  
o Bank Loan Sanction Letter mentioning the loan disbursement for establishing a 
manufacturing unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable. o Any other 
Government / Statutory document establishing the applicant as a manufacturing unit 
of ash-based products, as may be applicable.  
• PAN CARD, as may be applicable  
• GST Registration, as may be applicable.  
• Company Registration, as may be applicable.  
• Business details of the applicant / buyer / participant as per prescribed format (Part 
– 03) along with documentary proof as applicable.   
• Undertaking as per prescribed format (Annexure – 01), executed on non -judicial 
Stamp Paper, duly Notarized by a notary public.  
• Power of Attorney (PoA) in case of Joint Venture/Consortium - One of the partners 
shall be nominated as being in charge and shall be designated as leader; this 
authorization shall be evidenced by submitting, a power of attorney signed by legally 
authorized signatories of all the partners.  
• Form of Acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy (Annexure – 04).  
• Declaration on Debarment from Business Dealings Policy (Annexure – 05). Bids are 
liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete.  
All documents submitted shall be duly self -certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. In 
case of shortfall in the submitted documents, NTPC at its sole discretion, may solicit the 
shortfall documents from the applicants.  
6. Allocation of Dry Fly Ash Quantity:  
Dry fly ash quantity shall be allocated based on the receipt of responses to EoI on a pro 
rata basis (if response received more than EOI offered Quantity), and on “as is where is, 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 6 of 46  
  
basis”. However, collecting from NTPC`s issue of location and transportation, thereafter, 
will be in the scope of the applicant only.  
Daily allocation of fly ash shall be done as given below:  
6.1. All successful applicants shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their 
day wise requested quantities for each month.  
6.2. Lifting Sequence and allocation shall be finalized by NTPC depending upon site 
specific conditions.  
6.3. All allocated applicants shall be expected to follow the above schedule and mobilize 
accordingly.  
6.4. In case of non -mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, 
allocate such quantity to other users. Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC) NTPC 
shall be final and binding in this regard.  
Dry fly ash shall be issued from the discharge chute of designated ash Silos / Other 
Suitable Locations as decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the respective NTPC 
Station, on ‘as is where is’ basis.  
7. Advance Payment:   
Allocated quantity of fly ash for the period shall be divided into monthly quantity and amount 
payable based on the quantity for one month is to be deposited in advance (along with all 
taxes and duties as applicable) through NTPC Customer Portal (in NTPC Account) for the 
quantity of fly ash to be lifted in next month.  
8. Refundable Security Deposit (SD):  
Successful Applicant shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount 
along with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and 
Ash Allocation Process, at the rate of INR. 1.5 / MT (an amo unt equivalent to Ten (10) 
percent of value of concessional rate or INR 1 /- per MT, whichever is higher), subject to a 
minimum of INR 10,000 /-). This SD will be kept for ensuring commitment of the Successful 
Applicant(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the rate of INR XX / MT of un -lifted 
quantity will be forfeited.  
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. 
This adjusted SD amount will be refunded within Ninety (90) days of end of the contrac t 
period or of lifting of entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier.  
9. Affidavit for Utilization of Ash:   
The buyer shall submit affidavit on non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value, certifying 
the complete use of issued NTPC fly ash certifying  the adherence to provisions identified 
vide extant MoEF&CC Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, 
in prescribed format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the NTPC Engineer -
InCharge (format attached as Annexure – 02).  
10. Contact Persons:  
Name / Designation  Mobile No. / e-Mail Address  
 Avinash Ku Maurya 8587990070 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 7 of 46  
  
                           Part 2: Terms and Conditions of EoI:  
DEFINITIONS  
  
11. In this EOI, following terms shall be interpreted as:  
  
11.1. “The Contract” shall mean the issuance of an award letter including EoI documents 
and amendment thereof which will constitute the formation of the Contract.  
11.2. “The Contract Value ” means the consideration payable to NTPC Ltd under the 
contract for the full and proper performance of its contractual obligations.  
11.3. “Day” means calendar day.  
11.4. “Effective Date” means the date on which this contract becomes effective (i.e., issue 
date of LOA).  
11.5. “GCC” means General Conditions of contract contained in this document.  
11.6. “SCC” means Special Conditions of contract contained in this document.  
11.7. “The Buyer” (i.e., successful applicant or bidder or awardee) which expression shall 
unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to include its 
successors and permitted assigns.  
11.8. “Owner / Seller / Supplier ” (i.e., NTPC Limited / NTPC  NABINAGAR) which 
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to 
include its successors and permitted assigns.  
11.9. Awarded Quantity / Annual Contract Quantity /  Annual Allocated Quantity is the 
quantity of Fly Ash as finalized by NTPC NABINAGAR STPS for award to a particular 
successful participant and shall be expressed in Metric Tonne [MT] for the period of 
sale.  
11.10. “Arbitration Act ” means the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, as 
amended and modified from time to time, including any re-enactment thereof.  
11.11. Metric Tonne (MT) means 1,000 Kilograms.  
11.12. “Contract Term / Period” means duration of the contract.  
11.13. “Delivery Point” means the chutes of designated Silos i.e., Fly Ash Silos chutes at 
NTPC NABINAGAR / Other Suitable Locations as decided by Engineer-In-Charge.  
11.14. “Engineer-In-Charge [EIC] ” means the officer appointed in writing by NTPC  
NABINAGAR to act as an engineer from time to time.  
11.15. “First Off take” means the date of first off take of Fly Ash, by the buyer from Delivery 
Point and in accordance with this Agreement.  
11.16. “Force Majeure” shall have the meaning ascribed to it under the relevant clause of 
this EOI document.  
11.17. “Law(s)” means applicable laws, rules, regulations, judgments, decrees, or other 
legislative measures having the force of law or issued by any government agency, 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 8 of 46  
  
instrumentality, body or legislature, National, State or local authority or a cour t of 
competent Jurisdiction.  
11.18. “Quarter” shall mean a period of 03 months and shall be calculated from the 
scheduled date of commencement of contract.  
11.19. “Party” means the owner or the applicant, as the case may be, and “Parties” means 
both of them.  
11.20. “Awarded Price / Prevailing Price”  
11.21. “Awarded Price” is the price mentioned in the Letter of Award.  
11.22. “Adjusted quantity” means final allocated quantity to the applicant after adjusting the 
quantity of Dry Fly Ash which NTPC NABINAGAR could not provide to the applicant 
for lifting for any reason whatsoever, but not attributable to the applicant.  
     
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 9 of 46  
  
12. Validity of Expression:  
The applicant shall keep the expression valid for a minimum period of one hundred twenty 
(120) days from the date of opening of the expression. In exceptional circumstances the 
owner may solicit the applicant’s consent for an extension of the expression validity period. 
When the validity period is extended by the applicant, the same shall be done without any 
modification to the expression proposal by the applicant.  
13. Owner’s Right to accept any Expression or to reject any or all Expression’s:  
Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, the owner (NTPC NABINAGAR) reserves the 
right to accept or reject any expression, either in full or in part or to annul the EoI process 
and reject all expressions at any time prior to allocation of quantity without assigning any  
reason thereof.  
No contract shall be awarded to an applicant against whom a Debarment Order has been 
issued as per owner’s Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings.  
14. Owner’s Right to adjust the quantity during sale Period:  
The owner reserves the right to adjust the quantity at any point of time during the period of 
sale which NTPC NABINAGAR could not provide to the applicant or lifting for any reason 
whatsoever, but not attributable to the applicant.  
15. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD):  
15.1. Within fifteen (15) days of the issue of award letter for allocation by the owner, 
successful applicants shall submit the Contract Performance Guarantee / Security 
Deposit for an amount equivalent to Ten (10) percent of value of allocated quan tity 
or INR 1 /- per MT, whichever is higher, subject to a minimum of INR 10,000 /- in the 
form of e-Payment at NTPC’s Customer Payment Portal or through an unconditional 
and irrevocable Bank Guarantee. CPG / SD submitted in the form of Bank 
Guarantee shall be valid for 90 days in addition to the period of the contract.  
15.2. Failure of the successful applicant to comply with the requirement of Submission of 
Contract Performance Guarantee / Security Deposit within the prescribed time shall 
constitute sufficient grounds for the annulment of the allocation order. In that event 
no damages or compensations shall be payable to the buyer. Further, such applicant 
/ buyer shall also be dealt as per the provisions of policy for Debarment from 
Business Dealings.  
15.3. For comme ncement of supplies, submission of acceptable CPG / SD is a 
precondition.  
15.4. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) shall be released 
within 90 (Ninety) days after successful completion of contract in all respects.  
16. Notice:  
Any notice, request, or consent sought pursuant to the EOI shall be in writing and shall be 
deemed to have been made when delivered in person to an authorized representative of 
the owner or applicant to whom the communication is addressed, or when sent by e -Mail, 
speed post, telex, telegram, or facsimile to such party i.e., the owner or the applicant. 
 
Page 10 of 46  
  
17. Understanding and clarification of EOI Documents 
 
 
17.1. The applicant is expected to carefully examine the EoI documents and fully satisfy 
himself as to all the conditions and matters, which may in any way affect the work 
or the cost thereof. If any applicant finds discrepancies or omissions in the EoI 
documents or is in doubt as to the true intent or meaning of any part thereof, he 
shall at once request in writing to the owner for an interpretation / clarification of the 
EoI documents. However, such a request must reach the owner seven days before 
the end date of submission against this EOI, otherwise, the request for clarification 
shall not be entertained. After receipt of such interpretation or clarifications, the 
applicant shall submit his offer but within the time and date as specified in the EOI. 
All such interpretation and clarification shall form a part of the EoI documents.  
17.2. Verbal clarifications and information given by the owner, or its employees or 
representatives, shall not be in any way binding on the owner.  
18. Award for Sale of Fly Ash:  
18.1. The owner wil l issue an Award letter (Model Award letter at Annexure – 03) of 
allocation for sale of Fly Ash in writing to the successful applicants. The successful 
applicant shall return a copy of the Letter of Award, duly signed and stamped, as a 
token of their acknowledgement.  
18.2. The applicant would be required to comply with all requirements of the notification 
of allocation without any extra cost to the owner, failing which his Contract 
Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) may be forfeited.  
19. Uniform EoI Quantity Over the Allocation Period:  
The allocated quantity shall be considered uniform per month after commencement of first 
off take for the remaining supply period.  
20. ADHERENCE TO FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY:  
The buyer along with its associate / collaborators / subagencies/ sub-vendors / consultants 
/ service providers shall strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention Policy of owner displayed 
on its website http://www.ntpctender.com The buyer shall immediately ap prise the owner 
about any fraud or suspected fraud as soon as it comes to their notice.  
A certificate to this effect shall be furnished by the applicant along with his application 
“Acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC” [Annexure – 04].  
If in terms of above policy if it is established that the applicant / his representatives have 
committed any fraud while competing for this contract, then the owner shall be entitled to 
disqualify the buyer(s) from the EoI process. In addition to the above, if the applicant has 
committed a fraud such as to put his reliability or credibility into question, the owner shall 
be entitled to exclude including blacklist and put the applicant on holiday for any future 
tenders / contracts award process.  
Submission of an app lication against this EOI shall be considered as the acceptance of 
Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC.  
  
DECLARATION ON DEBARMENT FROM BUSINESS DEALINGS POLICY  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 11 of 46  
  
The owner has in place a Policy for Debarment from Business dealings displayed on the website 
www.ntpc.co.in / www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in. Business dealings may be withheld or 
banned with the applicant / buyer on account of any of the grounds and following the 
procedures as detailed in the said Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings.   
A declaration to this effect shall be furnished by the applicant along with his application 
“Declaration on Debarment from Business Dealings Policy” [Annexure – 05].  
The version of Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings presently followed by NTPC 
is Rev-4.  
Submission of an application against this EOI shall be considered as the acceptance of 
Debarment from Business Dealings Policy of NTPC.  
  
DECLARATION ON NTPC ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION (ABAC) POLICY  
The Owner has in place a policy for ‘Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC)’ as displayed 
on its website https://ntpc.co.in/sustainability/policies/governance.   
Submission of an application against this EOI deems the acceptance to ‘Anti-Bribery and 
Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy of NTPC’.  
  
Any kind of deposit in NTPC account w.r.t. Sale Price / Contract Performance 
Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) shall be through NTPC Customers 
Payment Receipt Portal only.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 12 of 46  
  
  
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT  
  
21. Acquaintances of local conditions:  
It will be imperative for the applicant to fully inform himself of all local conditions, legal 
requirements and factors which shall have any effect on the execution of the agreement / 
sale work covered under these documents and specifications.  
22. Confidentiality:  
22.1. Information relating to the examination, clarification, evaluation, and comparison of 
applications against the EOI, and recommendations for allocation shall not be 
disclosed to the applicants or any other person not officially concerned with such 
process.  
22.2. Any effort by the applicant to influence the owner in the owner ’s applications 
evaluation, application comparison, or allocation decisions may result in the 
rejection of the applicant’s expression.  
22.3. From the time of EOI opening Date to the time of allocation, if any applicant wishes 
to contact the supplier on any matter related to its application / expression, it should 
do so in writing.  
23. Examination of Expressions and Determination of Responsiveness:  
23.1. The owner will examine the applications / expressions against the EOI to determine 
whether they are complete, whether any computational errors have been made, 
whether the documents have been properly signed, and whether the application / 
expression are generally in order.  
23.2. The owner may waive any minor  informality, nonconformity, or irregularity in a 
application / expression that does not constitute a material deviation, provided such 
waiver does not prejudice or affect the relative ranking of any applicant.  
24. Settlement of Disputes:  
24.1. Mutual Consultation:  
If any dispute of any kind whatsoever shall arise between the Owner and the Buyer 
in connection with or arising out of the Contract, including without prejudice to the 
generality of the foregoing, any question regarding its existence, validi ty or 
termination, or the execution of the Facilities, whether during the progress of the 
Facilities or after their completion and whether before or after the termination, 
abandonment or breach of the Contract, the parties shall seek to resolve any such 
dispute or difference by mutual consultation.  
On reference of such a dispute by either party, the Owner shall invite the Buyer for 
mutual consultation, within seven (07) working days of such reference.   
Without admitting the Owner liability, the Owner may obtain, within 30 days of such 
reference of the dispute, further details from the Buyer and examine it relating to 
the dispute. Such examination (if any) by the Owner shall not be construed as or 
imply acceptance of the claim or liability or accuracy or completeness of the details 
set forth in such request or reference. The Owner may hold discussions with Buyer 
with an effort to resolve the dispute.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 13 of 46  
  
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation within 
a period of forty-five (45) days from the date of receipt of reference of such dispute 
or within such extended period as the parties shall agree in writing, then the dispute 
may be settled through Independent Engineer (if  applicable) and/ or Mediation 
through Independent External Monitors (if applicable) and/or through Conciliation 
and/or Arbitration (if applicable) / other remedies available under the applicable 
laws.  
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the 
parties shall keep confidential all matters relating to the Mutual consultation 
proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to any agreement reached during 
Mutual consultation, except where its disclosure is necessary for  purposes of 
implementation and enforcement.  
The parties shall not rely on or treat as evidence in Independent Engineer / 
Mediation/ Conciliation / and in any way Arbitral or Judicial proceedings, whether or 
not such proceedings relate to the dispute that  is the subject of the Mutual 
consultation proceedings:  
a) views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a 
possible settlement of the dispute;  
b) admissions made by the other party in the course of the mutual consultation 
proceedings;  
c) the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to accept a proposal 
for mutual settlement.  
24.2. Resolution of Dispute through Independent Engineer (IE)  
Not Applicable  
24.3. Mediation through Independent External Monitors (IEMs)  
Not Applicable  
24.4. Resolution of Dispute through Conciliation  
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation and 
through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through Mediation (if 
applicable) within a period as specified at clause 24.1, 2 4.2 and 24.3 above, the 
dispute if the parties agree, may be referred to Conciliation.  
(i) For cases where the disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is upto INR 25 Cr. (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation shall 
be referred to Expert Settlement Council (ESC), constituted by the Owner  
(ii) For cases where the disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is above INR 25 Cr. (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation shall 
be referred to Conciliation Committee  of Independent Experts (CCIE), 
constituted by Ministry of Power (MoP)  
If the claim / Counterclaim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange rate 
prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the claim 
in Indian Rupee.  
The Conciliation process shall be conducted as per Part III of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 14 of 46  
  
24.4.1. Resolution of Dispute through Expert Settlement Council (ESC), constituted 
by the Owner {For cases with Disputed amount (Claim / Cou nter claim, 
whichever is higher) upto INR 25 Crore excl. interest}  
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual 
consultation and through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or 
through Mediation (if applicable) within a period  specified at Clause 24.1, 
24.2 and 24.3 above, the dispute, if the parties agree, may be referred to 
Conciliation through Expert Settlement Council (ESC), in cases where the 
Disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is higher) is upto INR 
25 crore (excluding interest).  
24.4.1.1. Invitation for Conciliation through ESC:  
24.4.1.1.1. A party shall notify the other party in writing about 
such a dispute it wishes to refer for Conciliation 
through ESC within a period of 15 days from the 
date of failure to resolve the dispute through Mutual 
Consultation and Independent Engineer (if 
applicable) and/or through Mediation (if applicable) 
within a period as specified at clause 24.1, 24.2 and 
24.3 above. Such Invitation for Conciliation shall 
contain sufficien t information as to the dispute to 
enable the other party to be fully informed as to the 
nature of the dispute, amount of the monetary claim, 
if any, and apparent cause of action.  
24.4.1.1.2. Upon acceptance of the invitation to conciliate, the 
other part y shall submit its counter claim, if any, 
within a period of 15 days from the date of the 
invitation to conciliate. If the other party rejects the 
invitation or Disputed amount (Claim / Counter 
claim, whichever is higher) exceeds INR 25 crore 
(excluding In terest), there will be no Conciliation 
proceedings through ESC.  
There shall be no Conciliation where disputed 
amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher 
excl. interest) is only up to INR 5 lakhs  
24.4.1.1.3. If the party initiating Conciliation doe s not receive a 
reply within fifteen (15) days from the date on which 
it sends the invitation, or within such other period of 
time as specified in the invitation, it shall treat this as 
a rejection of the invitation to conciliate from the 
other party  
24.4.1.2. Conciliation through ESC:  
24.4.1.2.1. Where Invitation for Conciliation has been furnished 
under GCC sub clause 24.4.1.1, the parties shall 
attempt to settle such dispute through Expert 
Settlement Council (ESC) which shall be constituted 
by CMD/Chairman of the Owner.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 15 of 46  
  
24.4.1.2.2. ESC will be formed from experts comprising three 
members from the panel of Conciliators maintained 
by the Owner. However, there will be single member 
ESC for disputes involving disputed amount (Claim 
/ Counter claim, whichever is higher excl. interest) is 
up to INR 1 crore.  
CMD / Chairman of the Owner shall have the 
authority to reconstitute the ESC to fill any vacancy.  
24.4.1.2.3. The ESC shall be amongst Civil Servants of Govt. of 
India retired from the level of Joint Sec retary and 
above, Retired Judges, Officers retired from the 
level of Executive Director and above of any 
Maharatna / Navratna company in India, other than 
NTPC Ltd, Retired Independent Directors who have 
served on the Board of any Maharatna / Navratna 
company in India, other than NTPC Ltd  
24.4.1.3. Proceedings before ESC:  
24.4.1.3.1. The claimant shall submit its Statement of Claims 
(SOC) along with relevant documents to ESC 
members, and to the party(s) indicated in the 
appointment letter within 15 days of appointment of 
ESC. The respondent shall file its reply/Statement of 
Defence (SOD) and counter claim (if any) within 15 
days of the receipt of the Statement of claims. Each 
party shall send a copy of such Statement along with 
relevant documents to the other party.  
Parties may file their rejoinder/additional 
documents, if any in support of their Claim / 
Counterclaim within next 7 days. No documents 
shall be allowed thereafter, except with the 
permission of ESC  
24.4.1.3.2. The parties shall file their cla im and counterclaim in 
the following format:  
a. Chronology of the dispute  
b. Brief of the contract  
c. Brief history of the dispute  
d. Issues  
Sl. 
No.  
Description of  
Claims / Counter 
claims  
Amount (in 
foreign currency  
/ INR)  
Relevant  
Contract  
Clause  
        
        
e. Details of Claim(s) / Counter Claim(s)  
f. Basis / Ground of claim(s) / counter claim(s) (along with 
relevant clause of contract  
Note: Statement of claims shall be restricted to a 
maximum limit of 20 pages.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 16 of 46  
  
24.4.1.3.3. In case of 3 members ESC, 2 members will 
constitute a valid quorum and the meeting can take 
place to proceed in the matter after seeking 
consent from the member who is not available. 
However, ESC recommendations will be signed by 
all the members.  
If required, meetings can be conducted through 
video conferencing/other digital means subject to 
the agreement between the parties and the ESC.  
24.4.1.3.4. The parties shall be represented by their in house 
employees. No party shall be allowed to brin g any 
advocate or outside consultant / advisor / agent to 
contest on their behalf. Ex -officers of Owner ’s 
Organization who have handled the subject matter 
in any capacity shall not be allowed to attend and 
present the case before ESC on behalf of Buyer. 
However, ex -employees of parties may represent 
their respective organizations. Parties shall not 
claim any interest on claims / counter -claims from 
the date of notice invoking Conciliation till execution 
of settlement agreement, if so arrived. In case, 
parties are unable to reach a settlement, no interest 
shall be claimed by either party for the period from 
the date of notice invoking Conciliation till the date 
of ESC recommendations and 30 days thereafter in 
any further proceeding.  
24.4.1.3.5. ESC will conclude its proceedings in maximum 5 
meetings and give its recommendations within 90 
days from the date of reference to ESC. ESC will 
give its  recommendations  to  both  the 
 parties recommending possible terms of 
settlement. CMD / Chairman of the Owner may 
extend the time/number of meetings, in exceptional 
cases, if ESC requests for the same with sufficient 
reasons and as agreed by the parties.  
24.4.1.3.6. Depending upon the location of ESC members and 
the parties, the venue of the ESC meeting shall be 
either Delhi / Mumbai / Kolkata / Chennai or any 
other city whichever is most economical from the 
point of view of travel and stay etc. All the 
expenditure incurred in ESC proceedings shall be 
shared by the parties in equal proportion  
24.4.1.4. Fees and Facilities to the Members of the ESC   
Sl .No.  Fees / Facility  Entitlement  
1  Fees  Lumpsum fee of INR 2,50,000 per 
conciliator irrespective of the no. of  
meetings *  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 17 of 46  
  
2  Secretarial expenses  INR 10,000 /- lump sum (to 1 member 
only).  
3  Transportation in the city of 
the meeting  
Car as per entitlement or INR 2,000 /- per 
day  
4  Venue for meeting  OWNER’S conference rooms  
Facilities to be provided to the out-stationed member  
5  Travel from the city of 
residence to the city of  
meeting  
As per entitlement of Independent  
Directors. Executive class air tickets / first 
class AC train tickets/ Luxury car/  
reimbursement of actual fare. However,  
entitlement of air travel by Business class 
shall be subject to austerity measures, if 
any, ordered by Govt of India.  
6  Transport to and fro airport  
/ railway station in the city 
of residence  
Car as per entitlement or INR 3,000 /-  
7  Stay  for out stationed 
members  
As per entitlement of Independent 
Directors.  
8  Transport in the city of 
meeting  
Car as per entitlement or INR 2,000 /- per 
day  
  
* Due to unavoidable circumstances, if there is requirement of 
more than 5 meeting to conclude the Conciliation 
proceedings, the same may be done at the discretion of ESC 
within the capping of fee of INR 2.5 Lakhs per conciliator. 
However, logistic arrange ments, including travel, etc. may 
be provided as per the extant Policy for such additional 
sittings.  
Aforesaid fees is subject to revision by Owner from time to time 
and subject to government guidelines on austerity measures, if 
any. All the expenditure i ncurred in the ESC proceedings shall 
be shared by the parties in equal proportions. The Parties shall 
maintain the account of expenditure and present to the other for 
the purpose of sharing on conclusion of the ESC proceedings.  
24.4.1.5. If recommendation s/ report of ESC is acceptable to both the 
parties, a Settlement Agreement under Section 73 of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 will be signed to the extent 
agreed by the parties within 15 days of acceptance by the parties 
and same shall be authenticated by all the ESC members.  
Parties are free to terminate Conciliation proceedings at any 
stage as provided under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 
1996.  
24.4.1.6. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time 
being in force, t he Conciliator and the parties shall keep 
confidential all matters relating to the Conciliation proceedings. 
Confidentiality shall extend also to the settlement agreement, 
except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of 
implementation and enforcement.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 18 of 46  
  
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral 
or judicial proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate 
to the dispute that is the subject of the Conciliation proceedings, 
—  
a. views expressed or suggestions made by the other  party in 
respect of a possible settlement of the dispute;  
b. admissions made by the other party in the course of the  
Conciliation proceedings;  
c. proposals made by the Conciliator; and  
d. the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to 
accept a proposal for settlement made by the Conciliator.  
24.4.2. Resolution of Dispute through Conciliation Committee of Independent 
Experts (CCIE), constituted by Ministry of Power (MoP) {For cases with  
Disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim whichever is higher) above INR 25 
Crore excl. interest}  
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual 
consultation and through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or 
through Mediation (if applicable) within a period specified at Clause 24.1, 
24.2, 24.3 above, the dispute, if the parties agree, may be referred to 
Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE), in cases where the 
Disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim whichever is higher) is above INR 
25 crore excl. interest.  
24.4.2.1. Invitation for Conciliation through CCIE:  
24.4.2.1.1. A party shall notify the other party in writing about 
such a dispute it wishes to refer for CCIE within a 
period of 15 days from the date of failure to resolve 
the dispute through Mutual Consultation and 
Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through 
Mediation (if applicable) within a period as specified 
at Clause 24.1, 24.2 and 24.3 above. Such Invitation 
for Conciliation shall conta in sufficient information 
as to the dispute to enable the other party to be fully 
informed as to the nature of the dispute, amount of 
the monetary claim, if any, and apparent cause of 
action.  
24.4.2.1.2. If the party initiating Conciliation does not recei ve a 
reply within fifteen (15) days from the date on which 
it sends the invitation, or within such other period of 
time as specified in the invitation, it shall treat this as 
a rejection of the invitation to conciliate from the 
other party.  
24.4.2.2. Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts:  
24.4.2.2.1. Where Invitation for Conciliation has been 
consented to under GCC sub clause 24.4.2.1, the 
same shall be referred  to  the 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 19 of 46  
  
 Conciliation  Committee  of Independent 
Experts (CCIE) within 30 days.  
Conciliation Committees of Independent Experts 
(CCIE) have been constituted and notified by MoP 
for settlement of disputes arising in the Contract. 
There are three CCIEs, as specified in Special 
Conditions of Contract .  
24.4.2.2.2. The Buyer may select three CCIEs, in priority order, 
from the list of CCIEs enclosed with the Special 
Conditions of Contract, for finalization by Central 
Electricity Authority (CEA).  
There shall not be any conflict of interest for the 
members of the CCIE due to their past assignments. 
Individuals CCIE members shall submit an 
undertaking in this regard to the Owner, prior to 
appointment. It shall be ensured that they have not 
been engaged for providing any services to any of 
the parties i.e. either Owner or the Buyer in the last 
five years. An Undertaking in this regard, shall also 
be furnished by the Buyer for the purpose of 
avoiding any conflict of interest.  
24.4.2.3. Proceedings before CCIE:  
24.4.2.3.1. The procedure of CCIE shall not be treated as 
alternate arbitration proceedings where both 
parties come  with  Statement  of 
 claims/defence, arguments/counter 
arguments, rejoinders, written submissions etc., 
aided by their respective lawyers.  
24.4.2.3.2. The parties shall be brief and to the point before the 
Committee with regard to their respective stance 
and view  the  exercise  in  the 
 spirit  of conciliation/settlement.  
24.4.2.3.3. The possibility of non -availability of any one of the 
members of CCIE in any proceedings cannot be 
ruled out. As such, the Committee comprising the 
other two members shall be competent to proceed 
in the matter. The proceedings of the Committee 
shall not be vitiated if one of the three members of 
CCIE is not pre sent in the deliberations of the 
Committee. When the parties sign the settlement 
agreement, at least two members of CCIE shall 
authenticate the same. Such conciliation 
proceedings shall be considered valid and the 
settlement agreement will be binding on the parties.  
24.4.2.3.4. The parties shall be represented by their in house 
employees. No party shall be allowed to bring any 
advocate or outside consultant/advisor/agent to 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 20 of 46  
  
contest on their behalf. Ex -officers of Owner ’s 
Organization who have handled the s ubject matter 
in any capacity shall not be allowed to attend and 
present the case before CCIE on behalf of the 
Buyer. However, ex -employees of parties may 
represent their respective organizations.  
24.4.2.3.5. The Conciliation proceedings shall be complete d in 
each case through 5 sittings in a period of not more  
than three months from the date the reference made 
to the CCIE. In exceptional cases, if any dispute so 
merits, the time period may be extended at the 
discretion of Conciliation Committee (with rea sons 
to be recorded in writing), for a further period of three 
months.  
24.4.2.3.6. The CCIE shall hold day to day sitting at a suitable 
place (preferably the headquarter of the Owner or 
New Delhi) and may hold as many sittings every 
month as it deems appr opriate keeping in view the 
volume of work.  
24.4.2.4. Fees and Facilities to the Members of the CCIE  
Each member of CCIE would be paid a sum of INR 50,000/ - as 
sitting fee per sitting. In addition, INR 5,000/ - per sitting will be 
paid for local transport charges for each day of proceeding.  
In case, a particular dispute requires more than 5 sittings, the 
same may be held at the discretion of the CCIE but with a cap 
on payment of fee for 5 sittings only. The local transport charges 
shall, however, be paid as provided for each day of sitting 
beyond the 5 sittings.  
All expenditure incurred on the conciliation proceedings 
including payment of fees to the Conciliators, office space, 
logistic, secretarial assistance and other incidental expenses 
etc. shall be b orne by the Owner initially. Thereafter it shall be 
shared equally by both parties on completion of the conciliation 
process.  
24.4.2.5. The Parties shall maintain the account of expenditure and present 
to the other for the purpose of sharing on conclusion of the CCIE 
proceedings.  
The Conciliation process shall be conducted under Part III of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.   
In case of failure of the conciliation process at the level of the 
Conciliation Committee, the parties may withdraw from 
conciliation process and take recourse to remedies as may be 
available to them under the applicable laws other than 
Arbitration.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 21 of 46  
  
In the event of the conciliation proceedings being successful, the 
parties to the dispute would sign the written settlement 
agreement and the conciliators would authenticate the same. 
Such settlement agreement would then be binding on the parties 
in terms of Section 73 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 
1996.  
After successful conclusion of proceedings, the Parties to the 
conciliation process, have to undertake and complete all 
necessary actions for implementation of the terms of settlement 
within a period of 30 days from execution of settlement 
agreement, unless a different timeline not exceeding 60 days is 
agreed upon in s ettlement agreement. All pending claims of 
parties, in connection with the dispute, before any other legal 
forum are to be withdrawn within the said 30 days in pursuance 
of the settlement agreement.  
24.4.2.6. Notwithstanding anything contained in any othe r law for the time 
being in force, the Conciliator and the parties shall keep 
confidential all matters relating to the Conciliation proceedings. 
Confidentiality shall extend also to the settlement agreement, 
except where its disclosure is necessary for pur poses of 
implementation and enforcement   
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral 
or judicial proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate 
to the dispute that is the subject of the Conciliation proceedings, 
—  
a. views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in 
respect of a possible settlement of the dispute;  
b. admissions made by the other party in the course of the  
Conciliation proceedings;  
c. proposals made by the Conciliator; and  
d. the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to 
accept a proposal for settlement made by the Conciliator.  
24.5. # Arbitration  
24.5.1. If the process of mutual consultation and IE (if applicable)and/or Mediation 
(if applicable) and/or ESC fails to arrive at a settlement between the parties, 
Owner or the Buyer may, within Thirty (30) days of such failure, give notice 
to the other party, of its intention to commence arbitration, as hereinafter 
provided, as to the matter in dispute, and no arbitration in respect of th is 
matter may be commenced unless such notice is given. The mechanism of 
settling the disputes through arbitration shall be applicable only in cases 
where the disputed amount (i.e. Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, 
excluding interest) is less than INR 10 crores.  
If the claim/ counter claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling 
Exchange rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose 
of converting the claim in Indian Rupee   
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 22 of 46  
  
In case the disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, 
excl. interest) is INR 10 Crores or above, the parties shall be within their 
rights to take recourse to remedies as may be available to them under the 
applicable laws other than Arbitration after prior intimation to the other party. 
There shall be no arbitration where the disputed amount (Claim/ counter 
claim, whichever is higher) is only up to INR 5 lakhs.  
The parties at the time of invocation of arbitration shall submit all the details 
of the claims and the counter-claims including the Heads/Sub-heads of the 
Claims/Counter-Claims and the documents relied upon by the parties for 
their respective claims and counter -claims. The parties shall not file any 
documents/details of the claims and counter-claims thereafter.  
The claims and the counter claims raised by the parties at the time of 
invocation of the arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties and no 
further change shall be allowed in the same at any stage during arbitration 
under any circumstances whatsoever.  
In case, multiple arbitrations are invoked (whether sub -judice or arbitral 
award passed) by any party under this contract, then the cumulative 
disputed amount (i.e. Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, excluding 
interest) in all such arbitrations shall be taken into account while arriving at 
the total disputed amount for the subject contract. Disputes having 
cumulative value less than INR 10 crores shall be resolved through 
arbitration. In case the disputed amount  (Claim/Counter claim, whichever 
is higher, excluding interest) is INR 10 crores and above, the parties shall 
be within their rights to take recourse to remedies as may be available to 
them under the applicable laws other than Arbitration after prior intim ation 
to the other party.  
24.5.2. Any dispute in respect of which a notice of intention to commence arbitration 
has been given, in accordance with Sub Clause 24.5.1, shall be finally 
settled by arbitration.  
24.5.3. It is agreed between the parties that t he Arbitration proceedings shall be 
conducted as per the provisions of Fast Track Procedure as provided under 
The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, as amended from time to time.   
Any dispute or difference raised by a party to arbitration shall be 
adjudicated by an arbitral tribunal consisting of three arbitrators, in the 
following manner:  
a. A party willing to commence arbitration proceeding shall invoke  
Arbitration Clause by giving notice to the other party  
b. The Owner and the Buyer shall each appoint one arbitrator, and these 
two arbitrators shall jointly appoint a third arbitrator within 30 days, who 
shall act as presiding arbitrator of the arbitral tribunal. If the two 
arbitrators do not succeed in appointing a third arbitrator within 30 days 
of the latter of the two arbitrators has been appointed, the third 
arbitrator shall be appointed by the High Court of Delhi.  
c. If one party fails to appoint its arbitrator within 30 days after the other 
party has named its arbitrator, the party which has named its arbitrator 
may approach the High Court of Delhi to appoint the second arbitrator.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 23 of 46  
  
d. If any member of the arbitral tribunal dies, resigns, becomes 
incapacitated or withdraws for any reason from the proceedings or h is 
mandate is terminated by the Court, a substitute shall be appointed in 
the same manner as the arbitrator whose mandate has terminated as 
above. After substitution of new member, the arbitration tribunal shall 
proceed with reference from the stage where the mandate of the 
arbitrator has been terminated.  
e. Arbitrator tribunal shall be paid fees as per the Fee Schedule (presently 
Fourth Schedule) provided in ‘The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 
1996’ as amended from time to time. If the claim/ counter clai m is in 
foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange rate prevailing on the 
date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the claim in 
Indian Rupee which may be used for determining the arbitration fee.  
f. If after commencement of the Arbitration proceedings, the parties agree 
to settle the dispute mutually or refer the dispute to mediation or 
Conciliation, the arbitral tribunal shall put the proceedings in abeyance 
until such period as requested by the parties. Where the proceedings 
are put in abeyance or terminated on account of mutual settlement of 
dispute by the parties, the fees payable to the arbitrator shall be 
determined as under:  
(i) 40% of the fees if the Pleadings are complete.  
(ii) 60% of the fees if the Hearing has commenced.  
(iii) 80% of the fees if the Hearing is concluded but the Award is yet 
to be passed.  
g. Each party shall pay its share of arbitrator’s fees in stages as under or 
as per the directions of Arbitrator:  
(i) 40 % of the fees on Completion of Pleadings.  
(ii) 40% of the fees on Conclusion of the Final Hearing.  
(iii) 20% at the time when arbitrator notifies the date of final award.  
h. The Claimant shall be responsible for making all necessary 
arrangements for the travel/ stay of the Arbitrator including venue of 
arbitration, hearings. The parties shall share the expenses for the same 
equally.  
i. The Arbitration shall be held at Delhi only.  
j. The arbitral tribunal shall give reasoned and speaking award in prompt 
manner and it shall be final and binding on the parties.  
k. Subject to the aforesaid conditions, provisions of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996 and any statutory modifications or re-enactment 
thereof as amended from time to time, shall apply to the arbitration 
proceedings under this clause.  
24.5.4. In the event of any dispute or difference relating to the interpretation and 
application of the provisions of commercial contract  (s) between Central 
Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs)/ Port Trusts inter se and also between 
CPSEs and Government Departments/ Organizations (excluding disputes 
relating to Railways, Income Tax, Customs & Excise Departments), such 
disputes or difference s hall be taken up by either party for resolution 
through Administrative Mechanism for Resolution of CPSEs Disputes 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 24 of 46  
  
(AMRCD) as mentioned in DPE Office Memorandum No. 05/0003/2019 -
FTS-10937 dated 14.12.2022 issued by Department of Public Enterprises, 
Government of India and its further clarifications, modifications and 
amendments, issued from time to time.  
The limit on disputed amount as mentioned at clause 24.5.1 above shall 
not be applicable and matter may be referred to AMRCD irrespective of the 
amount involved in dispute, if the dispute could not be resolved through 
Mutual Consultation and IE (if applicable) as brought out at GCC Sub 
Clause 24.1 and 24.2 above.  
24.6. Notwithstanding any reference to the Independent Engineer or Mediation or  
Conciliation or Arbitration herein,  
a. the parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations under the 
contract unless they otherwise agree.  
b. the owner shall pay the buyer any monies due to the buyer.  
Settlement of Dispute clause cannot be invoked by the buy er, if the contract has 
been mutually closed or ‘No Demand Certificate’ has been furnished by the buyer 
or any Settlement Agreement has been signed between the owner and the buyer.  
25. Force Majeure:  
25.1. “Force Majeure” shall mean any event beyond the reasonable control of the owner 
or of the buyer, as the case may be, and which is unavoidable notwithstanding the 
reasonable care of the party affected.  
25.2. If either party is prevented, hindered or delayed from  or in performing any of its 
obligations under the contract by an event of Force Majeure, then it shall notify the 
other in writing of the occurrence of such event and the circumstances thereof within 
fourteen (14) days after the occurrence of such event.  
25.3. The party who has given such notice shall be excused from the performance or 
punctual performance of its obligations under the contract for so long as the relevant 
event of Force Majeure continues and to the extent that such party ’s performance 
is prevent ed, hindered, or delayed. The Time for Completion shall be extended 
accordingly.  
25.4. The party or parties affected by the event of Force Majeure shall use reasonable 
efforts to mitigate the effect thereof upon its or their performance of the contract and 
to fulfill its or their obligations under the contract, but without prejudice to either 
party’s right to terminate the contract.  
25.5. No delay or nonperformance by either party hereto caused by the occurrence of 
any event of Force Majeure shall.  
a. constitute a default or breach of the Contract.  
b. give rise to any claim for damages or additional cost or expense occasioned 
thereby if and to the extent that such delay or nonperformance is caused by the 
occurrence of an event of Force Majeure.  
25.6. If the performance of the contract is substantially prevented, hindered or delayed 
for a single period of more than sixty (60) days or an aggregate period of more than 
one hundred and twenty (120) days on account of one or more events of Force 
Majeure during the currency of the con tract, the parties will attempt to develop a 
mutually satisfactory solution, failing which the dispute shall be resolved in 
accordance with relevant clause.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 25 of 46  
  
25.7. Notwithstanding Sub Clause 25.5, Force Majeure shall not apply to any obligation 
of the owner to make payments to the buyer herein.  
  
War Risks:  
(i) “War Risks” shall mean any of the following events occurring or existing in or near 
the country (or countries) where the Site is located:  
a. war, hostilities, or warlike operations (whether a state of war is declared or not), 
invasion, act of foreign enemy and civil war.  
b. rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny, usurpation of civil or military 
government, conspiracy, riot, civil commotion, and terrorist acts, and  
c. any explosion or impact of any mine, bomb, shell, grenade or other projectile, 
missile, munitions, or explosive of war.  
(ii) Notwithstanding anything contained in the contract, the buyer shall have no liability 
whatsoever for or with respect to  
a. destruction of or damage to Facilities, Plant and Equipment ’s, or any part 
thereof  
b. destruction of or damage to property of the owner or any third party c. injury or 
loss of life  
if such destruction, damage, injury or loss of life is caused by any War Risks, and 
the owner shall indemnify and hold the buyer harmless from and against any and 
all claims, liabilities, actions, lawsuits, damages, costs, charges or expenses arising 
in consequence of or in connection with the same.  
(iii) If the Facilities or any Plant and Equipment ’s or buyer’s Equipment’s or any other 
property of the buyer used or intended to be used for the purposes of the Facilities 
shall sustain destruction or damage by reason of any War Risks, the owner shall 
pay the buyer for  
a. any part of the Facilities or the Plant and Equipment’s so destroyed or damaged 
(to the extent not already paid for by the owner)  
b. replacing or making goo d any buyer ’s Equipment ’s or other property of the 
buyer so destroyed or damaged so far as may be required by the owner, and 
as may be necessary for completion of the Facilities,  
c. replacing or making good any such destruction or damage to the Facilities or  
the Plant and Equipment’s or any part thereof.  
If the owner does not require the buyer to replace or make good any such 
destruction or damage to the Facilities, the owner shall either request a change 
(Change in the Facilities), excluding the performance  of that part of the Facilities 
thereby destroyed or damaged or, where the loss, destruction or damage affects a 
substantial part of the Facilities, shall terminate the contract.  
(iv) Notwithstanding anything contained in the contract, the owner shall pay the buyer 
for any increased costs or incidentals to the execution of the contract that are in any 
way attributable to, consequent on, resulting from, or in any way connected with 
any War Risks, provided that the buyer shall as soon as practicable notify the owner 
in writing of any such increased cost.  
(v) If during the performance of the contract any War Risks shall occur that financially 
or otherwise materially affect the execution of the contract by the buyer, the buyer 
shall use its reasonable efforts to execut e the contract with due and proper 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 26 of 46  
  
consideration given to the safety of its and its subagencies ’ personnel engaged in 
the work on the Facilities, provided, however, that if the execution of the work on 
the Facilities becomes impossible or is substantially prevented for a single period 
of more than sixty (60) days or an aggregate period of more than one hundred and 
twenty (120) days on account of any War Risks, the parties will attempt to develop 
a mutually satisfactory solution, failing which the dispute wi ll be resolved in 
accordance with relevant clause.  
(vi) In the event of termination, the rights and obligations of the owner and the buyer 
shall be specified, except that the buyer shall have no entitlement to profit in respect 
of any unexecuted facilities as of the date of termination.  
26. Insurance and Buyer’s Liability:  
26.1. The buyer shall be fully responsible for maintaining all the insurance as per the law 
of land at its cost.  
26.2. The buyer shall at all times indemnify the owner against all losses, claims, damages 
or compensation arising out of any accident or injur y to any person (whether in 
employment of buyer or not) or property in or about the plant including the Silo area 
(inside / outside the plant) which may arise out due to the buyers act / negligence 
while carrying out the contract.  
  
27. Suspension of the supply:  
27.1. The owner reserves the right to suspend and reinstate execution of the whole or 
any part of the supply.  
27.2. The owner shall not be responsible for any liabilities for suspension of issue of Fly 
Ash or issue of reduced quantity of Fly Ash for any reason whatsoever.  
  
28. Indemnity for defense of Suits:  
If any action in court is brought by third party against the owner or an officer or agent of 
the owner for the failure or neglect on the part of the buyer to perform any acts, matters, 
covenants or things unde r the contract, or for damage or injury caused by the alleged 
omission or negligence on the part of the buyer, his agents, representatives or his Sub - 
contractors, workmen, suppliers, or representatives employees the buyer shall in such 
cases indemnify and keep the owner and / or its representative harmless from all losses 
damages, claims, expenses or decrees arising out of such action.  
29. Recovery of Sums Due:  
Whenever any claim for the payment of the sum of money arises against the buyer, the 
Owner shall b e entitled to recover such sum by appropriating in whole or in part, from 
advance deposited against fly ash and / or the Contract Performance Guarantee deposited 
by the buyer.  
30. Safety:  
The buyer, including his subagencies, while executing the Works, will strictly comply with 
the statutory requirements (including amendments thereof), as applicable, in respect of 
the safety of his employees, equipment and materials. The applicant will also comply with 
the provisions of NTPC Safety Rules as issued from time to time and displayed on NTPC's 
tender website.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 27 of 46  
  
31. Disorderly Conduct:  
The buyer shall at all times take all reasonable precautions to prevent any unlawful, 
notorious or disorderly conduct by or amongst the buyer ’s staff and labour and for the 
preservation of peace and protection of persons and property in the neighborhood of the 
delivery site against the same.  
32. Jurisdiction of Court  
Only PATNA High Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all the matters concerning the 
supply of Ash against this his EOI / Contract.  
33. No Breach of Contract:  
The failure of a party to fulfill  any of its obligations under the contract shall not be 
considered to be a breach of or default under the contract in so far as such inability arises 
from an event of Force Majeure, provided that the Party affected by such an event:  
a. has taken all reasonable precautions, due care and reasonable alternative measures 
in order to carry out the terms and conditions of this contract and  
b. has informed the other party as soon as possible about the occurrence of such an 
event.  
    
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT  
  
34. Scope of Supply:  
34.1. Owner would be in a position to make available allocated quantity of Fly Ash from 
its Ash Silos at NTPC NABINAGAR / Other Suitable Locations as decided by 
Engineer-InCharge of NTPC NABINAGAR subject to availability, force majeure 
conditions and unplanned outage of plant, etc.  
34.2. The owner reserves the right to supply the quantity not lifted by the buyers to any 
other party at the sole discretion of the owner.   
34.3. Total Fly Ash quantity available to be issued at concessional price in this EOI: 3.6 
LMT.  
34.4. Period: One [01] Year.  
  
35. Working Hours:  
The issue of fly ash is intended to be given on all days (on 24 x 7 basis), including national 
holidays, or as per directions of Engineer-in-Charge.   
36. Delivery Point:  
36.1. The owner would issue Fly Ash from the discharge chute of designated Ash Silos 
at NTPC  NABINAGAR / Other Suitable Locations as decided by Engineer -In-
Charge of NTPC NABINAGAR.  
36.2. Fly ash shall be considered to have been issued and collected as it passes into the  
buyer’s vehicle at the loading / delivery point.  
  
37. Quality of Fly Ash: The owner would issue Fly Ash from the designated “Delivery Point 
/s” at NTPC NABINAGAR on “As Available Basis” based on actual weighment.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 28 of 46  
  
38. Evaluation Criteria and Quantity for allocation  
Fly Ash available is being offered through this EOI on “pro-rata basis” process. The fly ash 
shall be allocated based on the receipt of responses to EoI on a pro rata basis (if response 
received more than EOI offered Quantity), and on “as is where is, basis ”. However, 
collecting from NTPC`s issue of location and transportation, thereafter, will be in the scope 
of the applicant only.  
39. Award price:  
39.1. Price chargeable to buyer(s) shall be 15 Rupees per MT.  
39.2. All statutory duties / taxes / levies including GST shall be charged extra.  
  
40. Period of Supply:  
The duration of supply of Fly Ash from NTPC NABINAGAR Station will be for a period of 
One [01] Year, or till the completion of supply of the allocated quantity, whichever is earlier.  
41. Upward Quantity Flexibility:  
If requested by the buyer, the owner may consider supplying an additional quantity, up to  
20% of the total awarded quantity, within the contracted period. This is subject to 
availability  
and at the sole discretion of the owner, at the price specified in the LOA for which the 
extension is requested.  
42. Payment Terms and Bank Charges:  
42.1. Delivery shall be made against advance payment in conformity with NTPC Policy 
for collecting advance [through NTPC ’s Customer Payment Portal]. Advance shall 
be adjusted against delivery on a daily basis.  
42.2. The buyer shall submit an advance amount equivalent to One [01] Month of Annual 
Award Value for the allocated quantity of Fly Ash in the Award Letter, within Fifteen 
[15] days of placement of award.  
42.3. The buyer to pay any taxes / duties extra on the applicable rates.  
42.4. The buyer to deposit the CPG @ 10 % of award value (or INR 1 /- per MT, whichever 
is higher, subject to a minimum of INR 10,000 /-) in addition to advance mentioned 
above at clause 42.2 before start of work.  
42.5. Permission to start the work will be given for the first month after deposition of CPG 
and one-month advance payment along with the applicable taxes / duties within 15 
Days of placement of award.  
42.6. Permission for the next subsequent month will be given after depositing the 
advance payment for that month along with the taxes / duties before start of the that 
month as stated in clause 42.2 above.  
42.7. All bank charges shall be borne by the buyer.  
  
43. Commencement of first off take:  
Commencement of first off take for applicants of Fly Ash should not exceed beyond fifteen 
(15) days from the date of issue of award letter unless specifically agreed to by the owner.  
44. Weighment for invoicing:  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 29 of 46  
  
44.1. Fly Ash shall be issued based on actual weighment.   
44.2. Unit: The lifted fly ash shall be weighed in terms of MT (Metric Tonne).  
44.3. Weighment: Weighment of lifted fly ash shall be done at the weighment facility of 
NTPC NABINAGAR or its nearest authorized weighment facility. Weigh t so 
recorded shall be considered final.  
  
45. Compensation against shortfall during regular off take:  
45.1. After commencement of first off take, buyer will be required to lift fly ash on regular 
basis in accordance with agreed quantity as per contracted schedule. The buyer 
shall have to lift the 90 % of contracted quantity / adjusted quantity (in case of short 
supply) on prorata basis. In case buyer fails to lift the minimum quantity (90 % of 
annual contracted quantity / annual adjusted quantity) on prorate basis, 
compensation amount @ 10 % of the awarded price (rounded to the nearest whole 
number on the higher side) will be charged on the shortfall quantity (90 % of annual 
contracted / annual adjusted quantity on prorata basis minus ( -) Actual quantity 
lifted, for the period under review), provided shortfall is because of the reasons 
attributable to applicant  
45.2. Compensation shall be calculated for three consecutive months on a cumulative 
basis. The compensation will be calculated within 15 days following the three 
consecutive months under study. Compensation due on a buyer, if not deposited 
separately will be deducted from the advance available or recovered from the CPG 
/ SD of the buyer. The compensation amount deducted from CPG if any shall be 
replenished by the buyer in the CPG / SD account within 15 days notwithstanding 
which the supply of fly ash to the buyer will be stopped. Supplies will be started only 
after the ‘deducted amount from CPG / SD’ is replenished. Any decrease in supply 
of fly ash to the buyer due to non -replenishment of the compensation amount will 
be in the account of the buyer  
45.3. Consecutive three-monthly quantity shall be considered from the scheduled date of 
start till completion of three months and subsequently so on till expiry of contract.  
  
46. Termination of Contract:  
46.1. In case, fly ash offtake falls below 75 % of (the contracted or adjusted quantity, 
whichever is lower), during any three consecutive months on cumulative basis, 
Owner reserves the right to terminate the contract by giving 15 days’ notice in writing 
of their intentions to do so and in such an event the buyer shall not be entitled to 
any compensation from the Owner. In the event of termination of contract, the 
liquidated damages will be payable by the buyer at the aforesaid rate mentioned in 
above Clause i.e. @ 10 % of the awarded price for the short fall quantity below 90 
% of the (contracted / adjusted quantity, whichever is lower).  
46.2. The owner also reserves the right to terminate the contract in the event of breach 
of contract by the buyer giving 15 days’ notice in writing of their intentions to do so 
and in such an event the buyer shall not be entitled to any compensation from the 
owner. In the event of termination of contract for any reasons of breach of contract, 
liquidated damages equivalent to the amount of CPG / SD shall be payable by the 
buyer.  
46.2.1. Following will constitute breach of contract:  
i. Delay in first offtake by buyer from committed date by more than fifteen  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 30 of 46  
  
(15) days.  
ii. The buyer is not complying with operational and safety requirements 
and neglecting instructions of Engineer-In-Charge.  
iii. The buyer has failed to discharge its obligations according to the terms 
and conditions of the contract.  
46.3. The gross amount of liquidated damages / compensation, if any (combined) shall 
be limited to the CPG / SD amount.  
46.4. The contract for the sale of fly ash may be terminated at any time depending on the 
policy of the Government and / or other concerned authorities. The owner reserves 
the right for withdrawal of the contract in the interest and safety of the station and 
the Company by giving 15 days’ notice in writing to the buyer.  
46.5. In case, at any point after the award of contract / issuance of LOA under this EOI, if 
it is found that fly ash issued against the contract / LOA is not utilized in the 
manufacturing of ash ash -based product namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or 
cold bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as 
applicable to the applicant, but have been sold in the market or have been utilized 
for some other purposes, NT PC / Owner shall have the full right to terminate the 
contract and take any action as per applicable laws for breach of contract including 
forfeiture of Bid Security / Performance Bank Guarantee including Debarment from 
the Business Dealings as per the provisions of the relevant policy.  
  
47. Shortfall in supply by Owner:  
47.1. Fly Ash is a product of coal combustion, which again is subject to the demand of 
electricity in the areas allocated by the regulatory authorities. Scheduled and 
unscheduled shutdowns also affect generation of electricity and thus generation of 
fly ash. Though all efforts will be made to maintain contracted quantity of Fly ash 
available, owner does not guarantee availability of fly ash as per contracted quantity 
regularly and will not be liabl e for any compensation or damages for non -issue of 
required quantity of the fly ash.  
47.2. In case owner is unable to provide the average monthly / three consecutive monthly 
contracted quantity of fly ash due to any reasons including forced outages of the 
plant, congestion etc. The owner in respect of each buyer shall accordingly adjust 
the average monthly / three consecutive monthly contracted quantity downward.  
47.3. Under such circumstances the determination of CPG / SD and  Compensation 
referred above shall be computed with respect to adjusted yearly / three 
consecutive monthly contracted quantity.  
47.4. Determination of monthly quantity i.e., for any three months for termination of 
contract in case of short supply by the owner shall also be computed w.r.t quantity 
made available to the buyer on monthly / quarterly (i.e., for any three consecutive 
months).  
47.5. The owner may offer an additional quantity of fly ash at a later date subject to 
availability, if agreed by the buyer. The quantity so offered and agreed by buyer at 
a later stage, will form a part of the annual contracted / adjusted quantity.  
  
48. Taxes, Duties, Levies etc.:  
The applicant shall be liable and responsible for payment of all statutory levies in the form 
of GST and all other taxes and duties applicable on the Sale of fly ash. Such statutory 
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 31 of 46  
  
liabilities, if any, shall be paid by the applicant extra at actual. (“Goods and Services Tax” 
or “GST” means taxes levied under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, Integrated 
Goods and Services Tax Act, Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, and 
various State / Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Laws and applicable cess, if any 
under the laws in force (hereinafter referred to as relevant GST Laws).”  
  
49. Issue of Fly Ash:  
49.1. The buyer should depute his authorized representative to the power station for 
coordination and taking fly ash fro m designated point, as informed by Engineer -In 
Charge.  
49.2. Fly Ash will be issued from Silo Chutes / Other suitable locations as decided by 
Engineer-In-Charge to bulkers / closed trucks. Open trucks will not be allowed.  
49.3. The owner has the right to suspend the  issuance of fly ash if the advance amount 
is not available with the owner by the required date and such suspension of offtake 
shall be to the account of buyer.  
  
50. Responsibility during Transportation:  
The buyer will be responsible for any kind of injurie s or accidents caused to their 
employees or labourers or any other person and the owner will not be liable in the matter. 
If any action is brought against the owner for payment of damages or compensation, the 
buyer shall indemnify the owner from all such a ction or claim from damages / 
compensation. If the owner is held liable for any compensation, the buyer shall forthwith 
compensate the owner, if any, such claim arose during or after the expiry of the contract 
period.  
The buyer’s transporter(s) shall have  a valid license and meet the statutory compliance 
requirement of the State Government / Central Government / Concerned Authorities for 
transportation of the specified goods.   
Buyers eligible for collecting ash shall apply for permission for the bulkers / covered trucks 
that they propose to deploy and submit the same to Engineer -In-Charge along with 
specified documents like registration, license, insurance etc., who shall arrange to verify 
the same and issue permission as per prevailing procedure adopted at the NTPC Station.  
Road permits, operator / driver licenses, insurance etc. for the deployed vehicles shall be 
submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new and / or additional vehicles are 
deployed) and thereafter as and when demanded by the  Engineer-In-Charge for 
verification. The vehicles shall be in fit condition for safe operation.  
51. Billing:  
Owner will issue Exit gate pass on daily basis and invoices on daily / weekly / fortnightly / 
monthly basis and shall deliver to the buyer(s) an invoice showing the value of the Fly Ash 
delivered / issued for each day, along with applicable GST and all other duty / taxes / cess 
etc. as applicable and shall be adjusted against the advance payment made by the 
buyer(s).  
52. Transportation including Bagging / Packing of fly ash and any other related activity is in 
the scope of the applicant. No claim whatsoever, by the applicant for transportation of fly 
ash will be payable.  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 32 of 46  
  
53. Indemnities for Environmental Conditions:   
All Regulatory and Statutory compliances to be ensured by the applicant while lifting / 
transportation / Disposal / Usage / Sale etc.   
The buyer will submit an indemnity bond as per the prescribed format to keep NTPC 
indemnified against legal proceedings / paying damages arising out of non -compliances 
by the applicant, if any (Format attached as Annexure – 06).  
54. Lifting Sequence and allocation after EOI Process:  
To be finalized by Engineer-In-Charge depending upon site specific conditions.  
54.1. All allocated applicants (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the 
above finalized schedule and mobilize accordingly.  
54.2. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, 
allocate such quantity to other applicant(s) / av enue(s). Decision of Engineer -
InCharge (EIC – NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard.  
  
55. Compliance by Applicants:  
Applicants to comply with all reasonable controls imposed by NTPC NABINAGAR and to 
cooperate with the station and other operating applicants / contractors and to abide by the 
decision of Engineer -In-Charge. In case of any dispute the decision of the Engineer -
InCharge shall be final and binding.  
 
56. NTPC NABINAGAR reserves the right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date.  
  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 33 of 46  
  
Part 3: Format for Submission of Response to EOI  
(On official letter head of the Applicant)  
(To be submitted by the Applicant along with specified documents)  
  
EOI for Issue of dry fly ash from ________________________________________(Name of  
Thermal Power Station (TPP) from where dry fly ash is to issued)  
Sl. No.  Description   Details  
1  Name of the Applicant     
2.  Status (Company / MSEs / Local Users)     
2.1  
Consent To Operated issued by CPCB /SPCB  
  
 
2.2  GST No, (as may be applicable)     
2.3  PAN No. (as may be applicable)     
2.4  
Nature of Business:      
Name of the Product / Service     
Production / Service Capacity per Annum     
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year    
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility     
Whether capable of handling dry fly ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No)  
  
 
3  
Registered Address    
 
Telephone No.     
Mobile No.     
4  
Communication Address    
 
Telephone No.     
Mobile No.     
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 34 of 46  
  
5  GSTIN No. / UIN No.     
6  Dry fly ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words):  
Figures:    
Words:  
 
 
7  Address of the location where Applicant 
proposes to transport fly ash if issued.    
8  
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the applicant 
proposes to utilize the dry fly ash, if issued.  
SN  Avenue Name  Quantity Required  
1.      
2.      
3.      
4.      
Total    
10  
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc.  
Name of the Authorized Person    
Designation    
Telephone No.    
Mobile No.    
Email Id    
11  Any other relevant information    
  
  
  
                                                    For M/s _______________________________________  
(User Agency)  
Date: ______________      
    
Signature_________________________________________  
Place: _____________      
Printed Name _____________________________________  
                       (Authorized person having Power of Attorney)  
  
                                                   Designation ____________________________________  
                                                                                                     
Company Seal 
  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 35 of 46  
  
Page 34 of 46  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Part 4: Annexures and Formats.  
   
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 36 of 46  
  
                                                                                                                          Annexure – 01  
  
UNDERTAKING 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value)  
(To be notarized before a notary public)  
  
 
__________________________________________________________________________
____________  
  
NTPC EOI Reference: _________________  
Applicant’s Offer Reference Number: ____________        Date: __________  
  
I    son / daughter / wife of 
____________________________ permanent resident of    do hereby solemnly affirm and 
state on oath as under:  
  
  
1. That I am / We are the owner / proprietor / partner / authorized representative of M/s 
_____________ ________________ having their registered office at 
________________________________________ ________________  
   
2. That I am / We are micro and small enterprise / local ash users [with in 100 km radius of 
NTPC NABINAGAR], engaged in Ash Based product manufacturing of ____ 
____________________ (bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, 
fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels) as per para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC 
Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants Dated 31.12.2021 
amended on 01.01.2024.  
We understand that, in case, above document submitted by us are not found to be in order 
by NTPC / the owner at any stage of the expression evaluation, then our application / 
expression shall not be considered for evaluation and be rejected.  
  
3. I / We here by certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained 
in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the 
terms and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event 
of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered as part 
and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as and 
wherever applicable and required by TPP.  
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor 
have been convicted of violating applicable law.  
  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 37 of 46  
  
4. I / We, hereby undertake, utilization / ensure utilization of the fly ash, issued by NTPC 
NABINAGAR, for following Ash Utilization Avenues only, as identified in extant 
MoEF&CC Notification.  
i. Manufacturing of Fly Ash based products viz. bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold 
bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as per para 
D(4) inserted to the MOEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite 
thermal power plants Dated 31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024  
  
5. That I / We hereby affirm that Quantity Allotment / LOA shall be rejected at any pre or 
post EOI stage, if it is found that I have applied for more fly ash quantity than required 
for the production capacity of ashbased product(s) per annum (12 Month Period) 
mentioned as above.  
  
6. That I / We hereby affirm that the dry fly ash issued under this EOI shall be utilized only 
in the manufacturing of ash-based product as mentioned above, and that if at any point 
after the award of contract / issuance of LOA, if it is found that I have not utilized the dry 
fly ash issued against the contract / LOA in the manufacturing of the items mentioned 
above but have sold the fly ash in the market or have utilized for some other purposes, 
NTPC / Owner shall have the full right to terminate the contract  and take any action as 
per applicable laws for breach of contract including forfeiture of Bid Security / 
Performance Bank Guarantee including Debarment from the Business Dealings as per 
the provisions of the relevant policy.  
  
7. I / We also agree to submit  on Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of 
the issued ash for the purposes / Avenues as identified above in extant MoEF&CC 
Notification, if successful in subject EOI.  
  
8. I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd from any liability, 
whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable 
norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and for 
future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us o r my / our 
representatives / agents, if successful in subject EOI.  
  
9. I / We declare that the documents submitted by me / us against the “Eligibility for EoI 
Participation” mentioned at clause number 04 of the subject EOI document, or in any 
subsequent cla rification /s, is / are genuine and authentic. If any of the submitted 
document is found to be false / forged / tampered at any pre or post EOI stage or at any 
point after the award of the contract, I / We shall personally remain responsible for any 
action as per penal provisions of Indian law and NTPC / Owner shall have the full right 
to terminate the contract and take any action as per applicable laws for breach of 
contract including forfeiture of  Bid Security / Performance Bank Guarantee including 
Debarment from the Business Dealings as per the provisions of the relevant policy.  
  
10. (Applicable for those applicants whom fly ash has already been allocated ash through 
an earlier auction process /es from NTPC NABINAGAR)  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 38 of 46  
  
I / We have been allocated ash throug h earlier auction process /es also from NTPC 
NABINAGAR. I / We understand that if further quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the monthly ash 
quantity allocated through this EoI, only after the monthly quantity /ies allocated against 
previous e-Auction /s is / are exhausted for that month.  
  
For M/s______________________________  
(User Agency)  
 Date: ______________  Signature ____________________________  
 Place: _____________      
    Printed Name _________________________  
                         (Authorized person having Power of Attorney)  
    Designation __________________________  
  
 
  
  
  
DEPONENT   
  
                                                                                                    VERIFICATION  
  
Verified on ____________ this day of __________ that the contents of our affidavit are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and nothing material has been concealed thereof.   
  
DEPONENT   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Company Seal 
  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 39 of 46  
  
 
                                                                                          AFFIDAVIT  
(To be submitted by the Ash Recipient on Half Yearly basis)  
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value)  
(To be notarized before a notary public)  
  
__________________________________________________________________________
____________  
  
I ___________________________________ son / daughter / wife of 
_______________________ permanent resident of 
__________________________________________________________________________
_ do hereby solemnly affirm and state on oath as under:  
  
1. That I am the owner / proprietor / partner / authorized representative of M/s 
________________________ ______________ having their registered office at 
___________________________________________  
____________________________ and engaged in the business of 
_________________________  
  
2. That I / we have participated in auction / EoI for allotment of Ash from NTPC__________ 
(Thermal Power Plant), against EoI / Bid Specification / Auction Document number 
______________________ and that I / we have been allocated ________ MT quantity of 
Ash from NTPC __________ (Thermal Power Station).  
  
3. That I hereby affirm that Ash Recipient, M/s _____________________________________ 
has used the received Ash quantity in adherence to the relevant provisions identified vide 
extant Notifications and other applicable statutory regulations, in the following activities: -   
  
a. _______________________________  
b. _______________________________  
c. _______________________________  
  
  
DEPONENT   
  
                                                                                                 VERIFICATION  
  
Verified on ____________ this day of __________ that the contents of our affidavit are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and nothing material has been concealed thereof.   
  
  
                                                                                                                                                            
DEPONENT   
  
Annexure- A1  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular)  
Page 40 of 46  
  
 Note: To be submitted on Half Yearly basis.  
 
  
    