 
Page 1 of 11 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)   
for 
Issue of Pond Ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from NTPC Rihand 
 
Ref No. EOI No. EMGAU/PA/2026/RIHAND             Date: 17.07.2026 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1:  General Information. 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI.  
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B.  
All the above Parts (1 to 4)  shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder , on each page  and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
  
 
Page 2 of 11 
 
Part 1:  General Information 
General Details about NTPC RhSTPS:  
NTPC RIHAND SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION  (RhSTPS), located at Post office: Rihand 
Nagar,Distt Sonebhadra State:Uttar Pradesh PIN:231223 having a total installed capacity of 
3000 MW, is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power.  
To utilize the Pond ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant 
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of Pond ash as resource material, NTPC 
RHSTPS intends to issue its Pond Ash on free of cost and on first come first served basis , with 
transportation cost being borne by the Bidder. 
To facilitate this, NTPC RHSTPS invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 01 
(One) year, from its Central Dyke No 1& 2 & Mithini Dyke 1& 2. Further details regarding this 
Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follow:  
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC RIHAND SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION(RhSTPS) invites Expression of Interest (EOI) 
for above from interested Bidders for utilization of Pond Ash in eligible avenues as per extant 
MoEF&CC Notification in the prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3).  
Total quantity of Pond ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location  Total Quantity 
offered for EoI  Period of Supply 
RIHAND SUPER THERMAL POWER 
STATION(RhSTPS) 
Postoffice: Rihand Nagar, 
Distt Sonebhadra 
State:Uttar Pradesh  
PIN:231223 
40 LMT  
01 year 
(Aug 2026 to July 2027) 
 
 
How to apply 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving Pond Ash from NTPC RHSTPS  as per the terms and 
conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents 
and duly filled in enclosed “ Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI ” and “Part 3: 
Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”  to Sh Amit Dhiman, DGM(EMG)  at 
amitdhiman@ntpc.co.in ,emgrihand@ntpc.co.in  by 17:00 hrs. of 30.07.2026 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary 
proof as applicable. 
 
Page 3 of 11 
 
All documents submitted shall be duly self -certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
Allocation of Pond Ash Quantity: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI, Pond Ash shall be allocated to various bidders 
free of cost and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity is exhausted .  
However, collecting from NTPC `s issue location and transportation, thereafter, will be in the 
scope of the bidder only. 
 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation against both the Au ction Process and this EoI , 
then the Ash quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that Bidder , only after the 
Bidder completes the lifting / drawl of the total allocation against the Auction Process. 
 
Daily allocation of Pond ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day wise 
requested quantity for each month by the 22nd of the previous month. In case any bidder 
proposes to collect the ash through Rail (subject to Rail Loading Facility being available 
at the station), same shall also be indicated in this requisition. 
2. Based on above , corresponding annual allocated quantity  and availability, NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the  day wise allocation for each month  by 28th of the previous 
month. 
3. All allocated bidders  (or transportation vendors)  shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s) . Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC) -
NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
Pond Ash shall be issued from designated Ash Dykes  / Other Suitable Locations as decided by 
the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Ash recipient(s) for lifting  the allocated Ash. An amount at the rate 
of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This 
adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of 
entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
  
 
Page 4 of 11 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue Pond Ash from Rihand Super Thermal power Station (NTPC RHSTPS ) from where 
Pond Ash is to issued) 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm)  
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
2.3 
Nature of Business:   
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year  
Annual Turnover of previous Financial Year.  
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility  
Whether capable of handling Pond Ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
3 
Registered Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
Page 5 of 11 
 
4 
Communication Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
6 Pond Ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
Figures:  
Words: 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond Ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No).   
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT)  
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
8 Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport Pond Ash if issued.  
9 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the Pond Ash, if issued. 
SN  Avenue Name 
Reference of 
Applicable Gazette 
Notification clause(s) 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
5.   
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
Page 6 of 11 
 
Email Id  
11 Any other relevant information  
 
 
 
For and on behalf of    
 
      
Date:  
Place: 
     Signature: 
     (Authorized Representative)  
 
Name: 
 
Designation: 
 
Page 7 of 11 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
UNDERTAKING 
 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
 
 
I / We _________________________________________ (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained 
in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the 
terms and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the 
event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered 
as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as 
and wherever applicable and required by NTPC RHSTPS . 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi - Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, 
nor have been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, 
Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization 
of adequate number of closed / covered vehicle / suitable transportation arrangement 
conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out 
the above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those 
regarding safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill 
all applicable statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the 
contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area 
as directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / 
lifting and utilization of Pond ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / 
Subsidiaries from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the 
course of  execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or 
commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by NTPC RHSTPS for only Ash 
Utilization Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to 
submit on Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual U tilization” of the issued ash for 
the purposes / Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I  / 
we fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are  true 
and authentic  to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that 
 
Page 8 of 11 
 
if at any stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are 
liable for disqualification from this EoI and also  liable for any other penal action that 
may arise due to the above. 
Thanking you, 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ……….    Name ……………………………… 
       ……………………………………… 
Place:  …………………….   Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
       Name of the Company: …….……. 
       …………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
        
       …………………………………….…. 
       Company Seal: …..………………… 
     ………….…………………………….. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
 
DECLARATION 
 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
 
 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for Pond Ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of 
the EoI. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of 
the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to Railways, haulage charges 
and other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in Environment friendly 
manner, will be in my / our scope. While I / we understand that the NTPC Station may 
at its discretion, consider part / full facilitation for lifting of Pond Ash thru rail – mode / 
road cum rail mode, subject to feasibility and cost economics , I / we also understand 
that I /we shall have no claim whatsoever, in this regard. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, to the parties who have 
submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of 
submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of all 
specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along 
with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as 
per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along 
with requisite security deposit and other specified documents required by the 
respective station within stipulated time, NTPC RHSTPS  reserves the right to cancel 
the Pond Ash allocation to me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated Pond Ash through auction process also from 
same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to  collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ……….    Name ……………………………… 
       ……………………………………… 
Place:  …………………….   Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
       Name of the Company: …….……. 
 
Page 10 of 11 
 
       …………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
        
       …………………………………….…. 
       Company Seal: …..………………… 
     ………….…………………………….. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Pond Ash shall be issued from the designated storage area  or other 
location as decided by EIC to the Successful Bidders (or their authorized 
representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering 
Operational and Safety issues. 
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines 
etc and carry out their activities in full compliance with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission 
from NTPC RHSTPS. 
4. Agencies eligible for lifting Pond ash shall apply for permission for the  
covered / closed trucks that they propose to deploy and submit the same 
to EIC along with specified documents like registration, license, 
insurance etc, who shall arrange to verify the same and issue permission 
as per prevailing procedure adopted at the Station.  
5. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule 
or reschedule the lifting of ash by different agencies, which shall be 
binding upon the agencies. Agencies shall start collecting the Ash as per 
their respective allocation as per the schedule intimated by the EIC.  
6. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the agencies 
and verifiable by NTPC RHSTPS.  
7. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to 
termination of contract / agreement / issue of Pond ash as decided by 
EIC.  
8. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Bidder(s). 
9. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the 
deployed Vehicles shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and 
also when new and / or additional vehicles are deployed) and thereafter 
as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles shall be 
in fit condition for safe operation. 
10. Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper 
of requisite value, certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond ash, 
in adherence with the provisions of the extant Notification and other 
applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed format, shall 
be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
11. In case of any liability on NTPC RHSTPS, in any manner that arises due 
to non -compliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, 
Rules, Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the successful Bidder or 
its representative / agent, during the course of execution and for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful 
Bidder shall keep NTPC RHSTPS effectively indemnified of any such 
liability. An indemnity bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of 
Ash. 
12. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 
 