 
Page 1 of 3 
 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
Contract Services, EOC Noida 
 
    INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
Development, Design and Setup of 10 MLD Water Treatment Plant (WTP), Fire 
Fighting System and 132/33KV GIS Substation  
at  
NTPC Pudimadaka 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No: 2026_NTPC_110337_1                              Date: 22.07.2026  
 
Bidding Document No: CS-9590-001D-9 
 
1.0 NTPC invites on-line bids at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. 
Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible Bidders 
for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
 
The Bidder shall execute the project on a Lump Sum Turnkey (LSTK) basis, including 
complete design, engineering, procurement, manufacturing, inspection, supply, 
transportation, construction, erection, testing, commissioning, Performance Guarantee 
(PG) testing, statutory approvals, training and 2 years comprehensive Operation & 
Maintenance (O&M). 
The scope includes establishment of: 
1. Water Treatment Plant (WTP) 
2. Fire Fighting System 
3. 132/33 kV GIS Substation 
The Bidder shall be responsible for basic and detailed engineering, civil, structural, 
mechanical, electrical and C&I works, integration with existing facilities, utility interfacing, 
first fill of chemicals and consumables, startup and commissioning support, and successful 
demonstration of performance guarantees. 
All systems shall be designed for a minimum operational life of 25 years and shall comply 
with applicable Indian and International codes, statutory regulations and safety 
requirements. 
The Bidder shall submit all engineering documents, drawings, calculations, datasheets, 
quality assurance documents and manuals for NTPC review and approval as per the 
approved document submission schedule. 
The Bidder shall be responsible for obtaining all statutory approvals required for execution 
and operation of the facilities, with necessary support from NTPC wherever applicable. 
The scope shall also include comprehensive O&M for a period of 2 years after successful 
commissioning, including deployment of manpower, consumables, chemicals, spares, 
tools & tackles, maintenance equipment and performance monitoring systems. 
The Bidder shall ensure safe execution of the project without affecting existing operating 
facilities and shall provide adequate project management, quality assurance, safety 
management and training of NTPC personnel. 
 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through a mix of debt and equity. 
 
4.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under:   
  
  
Issuance of IFB 22.07.2026 
Documents Download Date and Time From 23.07.2026, 11:00 hrs (IST) 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time** 31.07.2026 at 10:30 hrs (IST) at NTPC 
NETRA 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any)*** 
03.08.2026 
Start date for receipt of Bid (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price) 
18.08.2026 10:00 hrs. 
Last date for receipt of Bid (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price) 
Up to 13:00 hrs. (IST) on 27.08.2026 
Date & Time for opening of Techno–
Commercial bid  
27.08.2026 at 15:30 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for submission and 
opening of Price bid  
Shall be intimated after opening of Techno-
Commercial Bid. 
Bid Security in INR INR 2,00,00,000/- 
 
  
  *Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender. 
 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC”. 
 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Two Crores only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.   
  
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY 
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
 
6.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is mandatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with 
detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
7.0  Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Annexure-I to this IFB. 
 
8.0  “Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves 
of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their 
bids."  
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class-II Local 
Supplier / Non-Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
The local content requirement to categorize a Bidder/Supplier as 'Class-I local supplier' is 
minimum 70%. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that bidder is considered qualified. 
 
12.0  NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
(IFB) without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
13.0  Address for Communication 
 
 
Sr. Manager (CS)/ AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
Contact: 9555551491 / 9650992301 
e-mail: rohitgautam@ntpc.co.in / abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites:  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
     or https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
 
14.0  Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 
Qualifying Requirements 
Development, Design and Setup of 10 MLD Water Treatment Plant (WTP), Fire Fighting 
System and 132/33KV GIS Substation at NTPC Pudimadaka 
1.0.0 In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instruction to Bidders (ITB), the bidder 
should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder: 
1.1.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
a. The bidder should have executed project(s) on Engineering, Procurement & Construction 
(EPC) basis (with or without civil works) in the area of power /metallurgy/ steel /oil & gas/ 
petrochemical/ hydrocarbon/ chemical/ water treatment Plant/ e Ưluent treatm ent plant 
/fertilizer plants, during last Ten(10) years reckoned as on the date of techno-commercial Bid 
Opening, with a cumulative value of such project(s) being ₹225 Crores (Rupees Two Hundred 
Twenty Five crores Only) or more with individual contract value of such project(s) not less than 
₹75 Crores (Rupees Seventy Five Crores Only). The reference project(s) should have been 
successfully operated for at least 12 months prior to the date of techno- commercial bid 
opening. 
Notes for Clause 1.1.0. 
a. The word “executed” in Clause 1.1.0(a) means the Bidder should have commissioned the 
plant(s) within the speciﬁed period even if the contract has been started earlier and/ or is not 
closed. 
b. The speciﬁed value of executed work is excluding any taxes and duties. 
c. The Bidder shall also be considered qualiﬁed in case the award for executing the reference 
works has been received by the Bidder either directly from the owner of the plant or any other 
intermediary organization. However, a certiﬁcate from the owner of the plant shall be furnished 
by the Bidder along with the Techno-Commercial bid for the successful operation criterion as 
speciﬁed at clause 1.1.0(a). 
d. If the Value of the reference works indicated at clause 1.1.0(a) is in foreign currency, SBI Bill 
Selling exchange rate as on the date of award of the reference work shall be considered. In 
case the exchange rate as on the date of award is not available, the exchange rate as on the 
next available day shall be considered. 
2.0.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
2.1 Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding three 
(3) ﬁnancial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less than 
₹180 Crores (Rupees one hundred Eighty crores Only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
ﬁnancial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding 
Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding 
Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable ﬁnancial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder 
in case of award. 
2.1.2 (a)  The Net worth of the Bidder should not be less than 25% (Twenty ﬁve percent) of its paid-up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial Year reckoned from the date of 
Techno commercial bid opening.  
And 
b) The Net Worth of the bidder should not have eroded by more than 30% in last three ﬁnancial 
years. However, Clause (b) shall not be applicable if Net Worth is equal to or more than 100% 
of paid-up Share capital. 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, wherever applicable. In such a case, 
however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, in combined manner, should not be less than 100% of 
the paid-up share capital. The individual Net Worth of the bidder should be Positive and for 
others the Net Worth should be at least 75% of their respective Paid-Up share capital.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: Net worth (combined)= [(X1+ 
X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.1.3  In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited ﬁnancial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation 
of its qualiﬁcation: 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated ﬁnancial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
(ii) A Certiﬁcate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed with 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated ﬁnancial statements 
form part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Holding Company. 
In cases where audited results for the last ﬁnancial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the ﬁnancial results certiﬁed by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the 
Certiﬁcate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its ﬁnancial parameters, the 
audited results of three consecutive ﬁnancial years preceding the last ﬁnancial year shall be 
considered for evaluating the ﬁnancial parameters. Further, a Certiﬁcate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the 
ﬁnancial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening and the Certiﬁcate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the ﬁnancial 
parameters is not available. 
Notes for Clause 2.0. 
(i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and 
free reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the proﬁts and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back 
of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Proﬁt and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written oƯ, if any, shall be 
reduced from reserves and surplus.  
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership, “Net Worth” means the aggregate of the 
balances in the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is 
maintained to record regular transactions such as drawings, share of proﬁt, interest on capital 
and other owner/partner related adjustments. The aggregate of balances should be positive. 
(ii) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial Statements of 
the Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. While 
working out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid evaluation, Taxes & 
Duties separately indicated (if any), in the Proﬁt & Loss account shall not be considered.  
 
(iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to 
the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used.  
 
(iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time.  
 
(v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 
1961, the ﬁnancial statements duly certiﬁed by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable along with a certiﬁcate from chartered Accountant that bidder is not 
liable for audit under section 44AB.  
 
(vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited ﬁnancial 
statement of last three ﬁnancial years for evaluating the average Annual turnover, due to the 
incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less than 3 years from the original 
scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be considered and the Average 
annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below:  
a.  If such bidder furnishes audited ﬁnancial statements for the last ﬁnancial year only, then 
such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the Turnover of the 
last ﬁnancial year by 1.5. 
b.  If such bidder furnishes audited ﬁnancial statements for the last two ﬁnancial years only, 
then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the sum of 
Turnover of last two ﬁnancial years by 2.5. 
Note for Clause (1.0.0) & (2.0) 
 For the purpose of this tender, any reference to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening for 
qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned in the qualifying requirements, shall be taken as the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening speciﬁed in the initial published NIT/IFB. 
 