NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, CPG-1, RAIPUR 
 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPARTMENT 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
SECTION-I  
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
NIT NO. 9900330148 
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_110390_1 
NAME OF WORK R&M work in WR1 HQs Office Andheri East MIDC Marol Mumbai. 
 
1.0 NTPC invites on -line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis  (Envelope-I: Techno-commercial 
Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from Eligible Bidders for aforesaid package- as per the scope of work briefly 
mentioned hereinafter. 
 
Brief Scope of  Work: The scope of work under this contract includes:  R&M work in WR1 HQs Office 
Andheri East MIDC Marol Mumbai. 
    
as per BOQ, detailed scope of work, Specification, Terms and Conditions, drawings and instruction of 
Engineer-in-Charge as detailed in the tender documents. 
 
     
Project/Station where work to be executed: NTPC WR1-HQ, Mumbai. 
 
NTPC intends to finance subject Package through Domestic Commercial Borrowings / Own sources. 
 
2.0 Detailed Spec ification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the bidding  document, 
which are available for examination and sale at our e  Procurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following details & schedule: 
 
Source of IFB/NIT Central Procurement Group-1, Raipur 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT  
NIT Date 24.07.2026. 
Document Download Commencement Date & 
Time 
24.07.2026; 14:00 Hrs. 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if 
any) 
04.08.2026; 16:00 Hrs. 
Last Date and Time for Bid submission 17.08.2026; 16:00 Hrs. 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 18.08.2026; 16:00 Hrs. 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately.  
Estimated Cost floated for tender  Rs. 15,41,94,934.19 (Excluding GST) 
Rs. 18,19,50,022.34 (Including GST) 
 
Owner Issue Material: NIL 
Cost of Bidding Documents (Tender fee)  Nil  
Completion Period  12 months 
Bid Security/EMD  Rs. 20,00,000.00 (Rs. Twenty Lakh only) 
 
Refer clause 3 regarding submission/ deposition 
of EMD. 
 
Exemption is not allowed. 
INTEGRITY PACT APPLICABLE  
Benefit to MSME This is a WORKS CONTRACT. MS E Benefit is   
NOT APPLICABLE for the Package.  
Pre-Bid Conference Date/TIME  
 
Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Purchase Preferenc e to Lo cal 
Suppliers/Preference to Make in India 
Class-I local suppliers only are eligible to 
participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions iss ued by 
DPIIT. 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the last date 
of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the  Bidders shall  submit “ Techno-Commercial Proposal” and 
“Price Proposal” online (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within the bid submission date and time. 
Only Techno -Commercial proposals will be opened on the date and timed mentioned above  or 
corrigendum/s(if any) thereof.  
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app 
  
Corrigendum (if any) and  extension of date (if any) , shall be ava ilable on our e -tender website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
 
3.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security Deposit  / EMD in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
documents in Clause 10 of Bid Data Sheet (BDS)- Sec III.  
 
       Additional option for submission of BG directly from the banker is also provided- REFER BDS-SECTION 
III Clause no 7.0 A, for further details. 
 
Online facility for submitting the bid security is enabled. 
 
Bid Security/  EMD up to Rs. 2,00 ,000 (R upees TWO Lac only) must be paid 
online through GePNIC portal ONLY. 
 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e -BG through 
NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e -BG, due to some practical difficulties o r constraints, 
physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG/ Insurance Surety bond as bid security, if 
opted for, should be  submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for 
correspondence (Clause-16 hereunder) before the bid submission deadline in physical form and 
scanned copy of BG / Insurance Surety  must be uploaded in the FEE folder in the tendering 
portal. 
 
EMD is not exempted in this tender being a works contract. Bidders are advised NOT to upload 
MSE/other document for availing ex emption. Bids without adequate Bid Security, as per tender 
provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
 
4.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 11 read in 
conjunction with relevant provisions in bid data sheet, failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: Not Applicable 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security  
 
c) Integrity Pact (if applicable- REFER BDS-SECTION III FOR FURTHER DETAILS) 
 
All bids must be accompanied by Tender Fees (Cost of Biddin g Documents), Bid Security (EMD) and 
Integrity Pact (if applicable) AS PER TENDER PROVISIONS. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY AS PER TENDER 
PROVISIONS SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE.  
 
IN CASE, BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER 
(EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN 
THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
  
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS: 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shal l meet the Qualifying 
Requirements stipulated here under     
  
 
5.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
5.1.1   The Bidder should have successfully executed Interior Work of composite nature 
involving Civil works, Electrical works and HVAC works for Office Buildings / 
Convention Centers / Airport Terminal Buildings/ Hotels/ Auditorium within the 
preceding seven (7) years as on the date of  Techno- commercial Bid opening 
fulfilling any of the following criteria: 
 
a) One executed work having value not less than Rs. 1234.00 Lac. 
 Or 
b) Two executed works having value not less than Rs. 771.00 Lac. 
 Or 
c) Three executed works having value not less than Rs. 617.00 Lac. 
 
Notes for Clause 5.1 above: 
1. One reference work shall mean the work executed at one premises / campus 
through a single contract. 
2. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier 
and/or is not completed/closed. 
3. In case of orders under execution, the value of work executed prior to the date 
of Techno -Commercial bid opening duly certified by bidder’s client shall be 
considered acceptable. 
4. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub -contractor may also be 
considered provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly c ertified 
by owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub -contractor in 
support of qualifying requirements. 
5. In case reference work has been executed with two Contracts separately, one 
contract for supply and another contract for services of the same inst allation; 
then total contract value shall be considered for evaluation of QR Cl No. 5.1.1. 
6. The contract could be through Letter of Award/ Purchase Order/ MOU/ 
Contract Agreement. 
7. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amou nt only 
shall be considered. In case of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should 
provide the break–up of basic value and taxes. 
5.2 Financial Criteria of the Bidder: 
 
5.2.1   The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding Three (3) Financial 
Years as on t he date of Techno commercial Bid Opening, shall not be less than Rs. 
1542 Lakhs (Indian Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred and Forty -Two Lakhs 
only). 
 
5.2.2   In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above at Cl. 
5.2.1 on i ts own,  its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements Cl. 5.2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or 
more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the 
Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno - commercial bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company's Board 
Resolution, as per the format  enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional 
and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in 
case of award. 
 
5.2.3   Net Worth of the bidder should not be less than 100% of the bidder's paid up share 
capital as on the last  day of the preceding financial year on the date of Techno - 
commercial bid opening. In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth 
based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiary(ies) of its Holding Compa nies, wherever applicable, the Net worth of the 
Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the 
Holding company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total 
paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 
75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: Net worth (combined) = 
[ (X1 + X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth wh ich should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid -up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid -up share 
capitals. 
 
5.2.4   In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand - 
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated  financial statements of the Bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along 
with co pies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding 
Company. 
 
 A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the 
Holding Company. 
 
5.2.5   In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno - 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is 
not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last fi nancial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 5.2: 
 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free  
reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profi t and 
Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if 
any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii. Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
iii. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
6.0 NOTE: E -Tendering Portal is capturing and showing the IP addresses used by the Buyer and the 
Bidder(s) /  Seller(s). The received bids having matching/common IP address with eithe r Bidde r(s)/ 
Seller(s) or Buyer, shall be outrightly rejected & shall not be considered for further evaluation. 
 
7.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the credentials/ 
capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborato rs /associates/ subsidiaries / group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest of the 
Employer.  
 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be limited to the 
assessment/verifications of office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference works in lieu of credentials . A 
negative determination of such assessment of credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of 
the bid 
 
8.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves o f the relevant provisions of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of their bids. 
 
Further it is hereby certified that all the guidelines circulated by NTPC in pursuance of Public 
Procurement (Preference to Make in India) ‘PPP -MII’ Orders of DPIIT/Mo P have been complied for the 
tendered package and NIT. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned 
in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid 
only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of c redit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the subject package 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder  shall have any 
claim arising out of such action.  
 
11.0 NTPC reserve s right to amend any bid/tender  conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS 
published in the portal AT ANY TIME. NTPC also reserves the right to extend/change the bidding 
schedule throu gh publ ishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in the portal if the situation demand so AT 
ANY TIME. The corrigendum as decided by NTPC and deeme d fit would be published in the portal as per 
provisions therein. This prevails over the relevant provisions else where in   the bid document. The 
corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be 
assumed that the information contained therein have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. 
Bidders are advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendums, if any. 
 
12.0 Issuance of bid documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be qualified. 
Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the prese nce of Bidder’s 
representatives who choose to attend the bid opening. 
 
13.0 The bid document consists of the followings:  
 
SI Name of Documents 
1 Section-I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
2 Section-II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  
3 Section-III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
4 Section-IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
5 Section-V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
6 Section-VI Technical Specifications/Scope of Work , Drawings, Quality Plans 
etc. 
7 Section-VII BOQ / Price Bid 
8 Section-VIII Forms and Procedures 
9 Attachment-3 (QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT DATA SHEET) 
10 Integrity Pact (if applicable) 
 
14.0 IMPORTANT NOTES FOR THE TENDER: 
 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET with Appendices & annexures (ATTACHED separately for 
the package as bid document) is to be filled up properly as per format given for the stipulated 
QR parameters and to be submitted in the bid at appropriate file/folder provided for the 
purpose. The reference works whose details have been declared in Attachment -3 AND/OR in the 
submitted bid  shall only be considered  to ascertain the bidder's compliance with the specified 
qualifying Requirement (QR).  
 
LATEST PROVISIONS FOR “ AUTHENTICATION OF VERACITY OF DOCUMENTS SUBMIT TED 
BY THE BIDDER IN SUPPORT OF  QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT” HAS BEEN INCORPORATED 
IN CLAUSE NO 6.2 OF Bid Data Sheet (Section III- BDS). AUTHENTICATED DOCUMENTS (AS 
APPLICABLE- from Independent Statutory Auditor of BIDDER / or specified Third -Party 
Inspection Agency (TPIA)) IN LINE WITH THE SAID PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED. 
 
Further Appendices & annexures/ declarations attached  into Attachment -3; relevant to the 
bidders as per format are also to be submitted.  
 
b) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONED IN Bid Data Sheet  (Section III- BDS) 
shall amend and/or su pplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidders (Section II - ITB). 
Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
c) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section -V, shall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section-IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a conflict, 
the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
 
d) UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet an d P&L A ccount 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generat ed in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
 It is mandatory to mention UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) by the  bidders while 
submitting audited financial statements, other C A certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI 
gazette notification dt. 02.08.2019. 
 
e) THIS IS A NO DEVIATION TENDER, WHICH MEANS - NO DEVIATION, W HATSOEVER, IS 
PERMITTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO ANY PROVISIONS OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS. 
 
 GTE PROVISION IN THE BID SUBMIS SION PROCESS IN TENDERING PLATFORM IS TO BE 
ACCEPTED FOR NO DEVIATION/ FULL COMPLIANCE TO THE BID DOCUMENTS. 
ACCEPTANCE TO THE SAID GTE WOULD CONFIRM THAT THE BIDDER HAVE ACCEPTED 
ALL THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE BID DOCUMENT. 
 
 
15.0 The bidding docum ent is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by 
any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be 
required to register on the website. 
  
         First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Users whose email address has not 
been linked  to a v endor code allotted by NTPC/ first time users not allotted any vendor code by 
NTPC, should send a copy of the registration details to the e-mail address specified in this NIT under 
Address for Communication with following details at least three working day s prior to Technical 
Opening Date: 
  
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form (refer Section VIII) duly verified by bank  
 
16.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
  
17.0 Address for Communication 
 
DGM / AGM (Contracts & Materials) 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492018 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515568 / 0771-2515240 
 
Email: pankajkumar07@ntpc.co.in   / rhshankarrao@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
            
Registered Office:  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
18.0 Important Instruction for this Tender: - 
 
Agencies are advised to familiarize themselves  with the site conditions prior to submitting their 
offers.  