 
Page 1 of 3 
 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
Contract Services, EOC Noida 
 
    INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
EPC PACKAGE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 10 MLD DE-MINERALISATION PLANT  
 
FOR  
NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN HUB  
Pudimadaka, Anakapalli District, Andhra Pradesh 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
GEPNIC Tender Ref. No:2026_NTPC_110388_1      Date: 24.07.2026  
 
Bidding Document No: CS-9590-154-9 
 
1.0 NTPC Limited on behalf of NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL) (The Employer invites on-line bids at 
Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage 
Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible 
Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work 
 
1. Basic design, detailed engineering, procurement, fabrication, inspection, packing, forwarding, supply of 
materials, transportation, and handling, custom duty (and any other duties), freight, insurance, unloading, 
storage, civil construction, erection, commissioning, testing, PG test, training including 5 years of comprehensive 
operation and maintenance (O&M) works of all systems in turnkey basis. The DM Plant system is intended to 
serve a lifetime of min. 25 years. 
2. Source of feed water is a through a water pipeline not more than 300m away and max of 2.5m depth. 
3. The source of power supply is from the NGEL switchgear building, which is not more than 1000m. 
4. The DM PLANT shall produce the following output water, 
a. 20 MLD treated water 
b. 10MLD Demineralized (DM) water 
c. 12KLD Drinking Water 
5. The DM plant consist of major facilities as below, 
a. Pre-treatment, DM water treatment and allied systems 
b. Drinking water includes UV, storage, and distribution 
c. Feed, treated and DM water storage system 
d. Sludge, reject and waste handling and disposal system 
e. Air Conditioning and Ventilation system. 
f. Complete piping system along fitting and valves. 
g. Fire detection and protection system. 
h. Laboratory testing facilities and equipment’s. 
i. Associated civil, electrical, and instrumentation works. 
 
3.0 NGEL intends to finance the aforesaid Package with a mix of debt and equity. 
 
4.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available at the GePNIC (e-tender) portal at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the 
Tender is as under:   
  
  
Issuance of IFB 24.07.2026 
Documents Download Date and Time From 05.08.2026, 1700 hrs (IST) 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time 20.08.2025 at 10:30 hrs (IST)  
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any) 
21.08.2026 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
Up to 1300 hrs (IST) on 02.09.2026 
Date & Time for opening of Techno–
Commercial bid  
02.09.2026 at 1530 Hrs. (IST) 
Date & Time for submission and opening of 
Price bid  
Shall be intimated after opening of Techno-
Commercial Bid. 
 
  
  *Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding schedule of 
the Tender. 
 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal of 
NTPC”. 
 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount INR 2,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees two Crores 
only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.   
  
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE 
BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER 
TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
 
6.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the e-Tender Portal 
as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll 
themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-
3 key is mandatory for e-tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate 
(DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY at the e-Tender 
Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
7.0  Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Annexure-I to this IFB. 
 
8.0  “Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids."  
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received (if any) from Class-II Local Supplier / Non-Local 
Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in 
the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe that bidder is 
considered qualified. 
 
12.0  NTPC/NGEL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids (IFB) without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising 
out of such action. 
 
13.0  Address for Communication 
 
DGM (CS)/ AGM (CS) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
Contact: 9406712310 / 9650992301 
e-mail: shailendrakrsrivastava@ntpc.co.in / abhishekjain02@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites:  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
     or https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
 
14.0  Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
 
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
 
Annexure-I 
APPROVED QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QR) FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF 10 MLD 
DEMINERALISATION PLANT FOR NGEL GREEN HYDROGEN HUB AT PUDIMADAKA, 
ANAKAPALLI DISTRICT, ANDHRA PRADESH 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in Section ITB (Instruction to Bidders), the Bidder should 
also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in Clause 1.0 and Clause 2.0: 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
1.1 The Bidder should have designed, supplied, erected and commissioned One (1) number 
Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant consisting of at least one (1) stream of minimum 60 cum/hr 
capacity, capable of producing outlet water quality of silica and conductivity not more than 0.02 
ppm as SiO2 and 0.2 micromho/cm respectively. 
The above RO plant should be having design inlet feed Water (fresh water) with TDS ≥ 500 
ppm and capable of producing permeate water quality with TDS not more than 100 ppm OR 
having inlet feed as sea water and capable of producing permeate water quality with TDS not 
more than 500 ppm. The plant should have been in successful operation for at least one (1) 
year prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
2.0 Financial criteria: 
2.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening should not be less than
₹102 Crore  (Indian Rupees  One Hundred Two Crore Only ) or in equivalent foreign
currency.
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last d ay of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding 
Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno -
Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding 
Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging 
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder 
in case of award.  
2.2.   (a) Net worth of the bidder should not be less than 25% (Twenty five percent) of the 
Bidder’s paid -up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial Year 
reckoned from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
And 
(b) Net Worth of the bidder should not have eroded by more than 30% in last three
Financial Years.
However, Clause (b) is not applicable if Net Worth is equal to or more than 100% of 
Paid-up Share capital.  
  
                                
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, wherever applicable. In such 
a case, however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies ) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, in combined manner, should 
not be less than 100% of the paid-up share capital. However, the individual Net Worth 
of the bidder should be Positive and for others, the Net Worth should be atleast 75% 
of their respective Paid-Up share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100  
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worths and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid -up 
share capitals.  
 
2.3. In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification.  
 (i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.  
 (ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company.  
  In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is 
not able t o submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practi cing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available.  
 
  Notes for Clause 2.0 
(i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid-up share capital 
and free reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the profits and 
share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation 
of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any 
debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent 
not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
  
                                
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” means the aggregate of 
the balances in the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current 
Account is maintained to record regular transactions such as drawings, share of 
profit, intere st on capital and other owner/partner related adjustments. The 
aggregate of balances should be positive.  
(ii) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial 
Statements of the Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at 
annual turnover. While working out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR 
during bid evaluation, Taxes & Duties separately indicated (if any), in the Profit & 
Loss account shall not be considered.  
(iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) 
days prior to the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used.  
(iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time.  
(v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered 
Accountant that bidder is not liable for audit under section 44AB.  
(vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited 
financial statement of last three financial years for evaluating the average Annual 
turnover, due to the incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less than 3 
years from the original scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be 
considered and the Average annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below:  
a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last financial year 
only, then such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the 
Turnover of the last financial year by 1.5.  
b. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last two financial 
years only, then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing 
the sum of Turnover of last two financial years by 2.5.  
NOTE for clauses 1.0 & 2.0: 
 
For the purposes of this tender, any reference to the date of Techno -commercial bid 
opening for qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned, shall be taken as on the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening specified in the initial published NIT/IFB.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 