“Enlistment of agencies for 2D Seismic reflection study for Nuclear Power projects”.s
Dates for Online application submission shall be as per the following schedule 
Enlistment group No. CCG-15
Enlistment Docs link 
Issue of NIA 24.07.2026
Start of Documents download Date 27.07.2026
Last date for receipt of queries from 
applicants (if any) 
03.08.2026
Last Date and Time for Complete 
Application submission 
17.08.2026
Cost of Enlistment Document/ 
Application Fees 
NIL 
Note: Applicants are advised to visit the Vendor Enlistment portal of NTPC 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in for updated schedule and submission of online 
application for  the said Enlistment . 
Note : Date mentioned above is original date, for any extension please keep refer 
the date mentioned on www.vdc.ntpc.co.in  
Address for Communication:
AGM/DGM
NTPC LIMITED
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex,
Plot No: A-8A, Sector-24, Noida-201301
Dist: Gautambudh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh
Contact : 01204946536/38
Email: ishteyaqueali@ntpc.co.in / rupeshkumar@ntpc.co.in
website: www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in / www.ntpc.co.in /www.vdc.ntpc.co.in
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
Notice Inviting Applications 
(NIA)
for 
Enlistment of agencies for 2D Seismic reflection 
study for Nuclear Power projects
         Original Application Period 
(Online only) 27.07.2026 - 17.08.2026
through NTPC Vendor Enlistment Portal 
vdc.ntpc.co.in
Annexure-A	
Approved Qualifying Requirements (QR) for 2D Seismic Reflection Study for Nuclear Power Projects 
In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under section  ITA (Instruction to Applicant), the 
applicant should also meet the technical qualifying requirements stipulated in clauses 1.0.0 and 
financial requirements as stipulated in clauses 2.0.0. 
1.0.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1.0 The applicant should have executed 2D or 3D Seismic Refle ction Surveys, including data 
acquisition, processing, and interpretation, in the oil & gas i ndustry or mining sector or nuclear 
projects or hydro projects or similar industries within the pre ceding seven (7) years, reckoned 
as on the last date notified for receipt of application, and sh ould have achieved the following 
progress in 2D or 3D Seismic Reflection Surveys: 
1.1.1 The applicant should have executed at least One (1) 2D or 3D seismic reflection project 
comprising a minimum of 50 line-km for 2D or 10 sq-km for 3D data acquisition 
respectively, within the specified period, with an investigation depth of 1 km or more. 
OR 
1.1.2 The applicant should have executed at least Two (2) 2D or 3D seismic reflection projects, 
comprising a minimum of 25 line-km for 2D or 5 sq-km for 3D data acquisition 
respectively, within the specified period, with an investigation depth of 1 km or more. 
1.2.0 The Applicant should have the following manpower on its r egular pay roll for minimum one year 
period reckoned as on the last date notified for receipt of application, 
1.2.1 At least Two (2) qualified Geophysicists with PhD/M.Tech/ M.E./M.S degree in 
Geophysics/Applied Geophysics and having minimum three (3) years’ work experience 
in the area of 2D or 3D seismic survey works. The experience certificate shall be certified 
by CEO / CFO / managing partner of the Applicant.  
1.3.0 The Applicant should own or have on lease the following e quipment and software, 
1.3.1 Seismic Vibroseis: Minimum 6000 Pounds of peak force and output & frequency range 
of 10 to 400 Hz. 
1.3.2 Data acquisition system: The system should be 24-bit Sigma Delta based telemetry 
system / Node based data acquisition system / 24 Channel Geode Seismograph and 
Recording unit in truck mounted / Standard optimized.  
1.3.3 Receiver: Geophones having low distortion and high-performance with 10 Hz of natural 
frequency OR Nodes with inbuilt geophones low distortion and high-performance with 10 
Hz of natural frequency. 
2.0.0      Financial Criteria 
2.1.0      Financial Criteria for the Applicant 
2.1.1    The average annual turnover of the Applicant, in the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on the last date notified for receipt of application, should not b e less than INR 11.0 
Crores (Rs. Eleven Crores Only). 
            In case an Applicant does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria stipulated 
above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the 
last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share 
capital of the  Holding Company. In such an event, the Applicant would be requi red to 
furnish along with its bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by pledging unconditional and irrevoc able financial support for the execution of the 
Contract by the Applicant in case of award. 
2.1.2   Net worth should not be less than 100 % (hundred percen t) of the Applicant’s paid up 
share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year as on the last date notified 
for receipt of application. In case the Applicant does not meet  the Net worth criteria on 
its own, it can meet the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary 
(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of its Hol ding company wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Applicant and its Subsidiary 
(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or  Subsidiary (ies) of the Hol ding Company, in 
combined manner should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% (seventy 
five percent) of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid-up share capitals and Y1,Y2,Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.1.3   In case the Applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the Applicant can be 
considered acceptable provided the Applicant furnishes the following further documents 
for substantiation of its qualification: 
I. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Applicant along with
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.
II. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statemen ts
form part of the consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as o n the last date notified fo r
receipt of application are not available, the financial results  certified by a practicin g
Chartered Accountant shall be cons idered acceptable. In case, A pplicant is not able to
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant c ertifying its financia l
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last
financial year shall be considered  for evaluating the financial  parameters. Further, a
Certificate would be required fr om the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in t he
bidding documents stating that the Financial results of the Com pany are under audit as
on the last date notified for receipt of application and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for clause 1.1.0 above: 
i. In case the Applicant is not able to carry out the 2D seismic data Processing a nd
Interpretation works by their own, they should tie up with any Government agencies, IITs,
IISc or any industries of repute (having past experience of similar works). Applicant shal l
submit the document in the form of joint agreement or MOU along  with the application, a s
per the format enclosed in the bidding documents. This document shall be submitted along
with the bid, failing which the applicant shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected.
ii. If the qualifying work is completed in the last seven (7) year’s period specified above, even
if it has started earlier, the sa me will also be considered as meeting the qualifying
requirements.
iii. The word “executed” means the Applicant should have achiev ed the progress specified in
the QR even if the contract is not completed / closed.
Notes for clause 1.3.0 above: 
i. The Applicant shall submit ownership documents of equipment’ s, such as the Purchase
Invoice, Registration Document, or Lease Agreement, along with the bid. Failure to do so
will result in disqualification and rejection of the bid.
Notes for clause 2.0.0 above: 
i. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve
means all reserves credited out o f the profits and share premiu m account but does not
include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation
provision and amalgamation. Fur ther any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written of f, if any, shall be reduced
from reserves and surplus.
ii. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover.
iii. "Holding Company" and "Subsidiary" shall have the meaning ascribed to them as pe r
Companies Act, 2013.
iv. For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exch ange rate as on seven (7) days
prior to the last date notified for receipt of application shall be used.
Notes for clause 1.0.0 & 2.0.0 above: 
i. For the purposes of this enlistment, any reference to the last date notified for receipt of
application mentioned in the Qual ifying Requirements shall be d eemed to refer to the last
date for receipt of applications as specified in the initially published Notification.
BRIEF SCOPE - ENLISTMENT OF 2D SEISMIC SURVEY 1 
2D SEISMIC REFLECTION SURVEY:  BRIEF SCOPE OF WORKS 
The scope of work given below highlights only the major items of work and shall not be limited 
to the following. 
1. Seismic Data Acquisition
Deployment of Seismic Vibrator minimum 6000 Pounds of peak forc e with output &
frequency range of 10 to 400 Hz to site for data acquisition. The contractor shall acquire
2D seismic data using a globally recognized 24-bit Sigma Delta based telemetry system
/ Node based data acquisition system / 24 Channel Geode Seismograph. Data recording
shall be done through truck mounted data acquisition system or Standard optimized.
High-sensitivity 10 Hz geophones and 24-bit digital line teleme try modules shall be
deployed, with geophones firmly planted, properly aligned, test ed for polarity and
impedance, and array spacing maintained within specified tolera nces. Strict noise
control shall be ensured by proper geophone planting, maintaini ng cable integrit y,
protecting cables at crossings, restricting vehicle movement near receiver lines, and
continuously monitoring ambient noise, which shall not affect more than 10% of traces.
All equipment shall be maintained in optimal condition, with pe riodic performance
reports submitted to NTPC. Monitor records and detailed observe r logs shall be
generated and maintained, documenting all acquisition parameter s, shot details, time
records, lost time, and any operational discrepancies. Data shall be acquired upto depth
of 2 to 3km below surface level.
2. Seismic Data Processing
The contractor shall carry out seismic data processing using ad equate workstatio ns
equipped with necessary hardware, software, and plotting facili ties to ensure effectiv e
survey processing, quality control, and output generation. Proc essing activities shal l
include survey processing and plot generation, field parameter analysis, real-time data
m o n i t o r i n g ,  p r e - p r o c e s s i n g  f o r  q u a l i t y  c o n t r o l ,  a n d  b a s i c  p r o c essing up to stack to
assess data quality for each completed seismic line. The proces sing sequence sha ll
broadly cover SEGY reformatting, geometry loading and QC, true amplitude recovery,
statics correction, surface-consistent deconvolution and amplit ude scaling, multi-
domain noise attenuation, detailed velocity analysis at progressive grid spacing, residual
statics and NMO correction, stacki ng, post-stack time migration , spectral balancing ,
deconvolution, signal enhancement, scaling, and final band-pass filtering, and
complete, not limited to mentioned above.
BRIEF SCOPE - ENLISTMENT OF 2D SEISMIC SURVEY 2 
Preliminary technical findings shall be derived from the processed 2D seismic sections, 
providing initial interpretation of subsurface structures, reflector continuity, depth trends, 
and overall data quality, enabling early assessment of geologic al features and guiding 
further detailed interpretation and decision-making. 
3. Seismic Data Interpretation
Structural Mapping: Critically analyse the processed seismic se ction to identif y
geological structures such as faults, folds, etc. and stratigraphic layers.
Depth Conversion: Convert the time-domain seismic data into dep th using a velocit y
model, facilitating a clearer understanding of the subsurface structures.
4. Final Report
Submission of a comprehensive final acquisition and processing report, detailing
methodology, equipment, QC results, issues encountered, and recommendations.
Clause No. Existing Amended as 
22.A
REVIEW OF
ENLISTED
VENDORS
FOR POOR
PERFORMA
NCE,
In case of unsatisfactory performance 
of the enlisted vendors, respective 
Station shall take necessary action 
against the Vendor for withholding/ 
banning business dealings, in line with 
NTPC banning policy. 
Vendor shall be de-enlisted for the 
balance period of his enlistment if Pan 
NTPC banning action taken against any 
vendor. 
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor 
is found to have been involved in any 
fraudulent activities like submission of 
fake credentials/ document/ 
information as deﬁned in NTPC Fraud 
prevention policy/ banning policy 
during enlistment process of VEC, VEC 
shall take necessary action in line with 
Fraud Prevention Policy. 
In case of unsatisfactory performance of the 
enlisted vendors, respective Station shall 
take necessary action against the Vendor for 
withholding/ banning business dealings, in 
line with NTPC banning policy. 
If any vendor is debarred/banned by NTPC as 
per NTPC's policy for Debarment/ banning 
from business dealings, the vendor shall be 
de- enlisted for the period for which the 
debarment/banning would be operative as 
per the debarment/banning order. 
Post lifting of debarment /banning order  
such vendor's enlistment status will be 
restored for the balance period ( if any ) of 
enlistment in which the agency was enlisted 
pre-banning. 
If any of the applicant / enlisted vendor is 
found to have been involved in any 
fraudulent activities like submission of fake 
credentials/ document/ information as 
deﬁned in NTPC Fraud prevention policy/ 
banning policy during enlistment process of 
VEC, VEC shall take necessary action in line 
with Fraud Prevention Policy. 
Amendment in Standard terms and conditions clause no 28 (Amendment no. 3)
Clause No. Existing Amended as 
7.0 ENLISTMENT 
CALENDAR: 
In order to  optimize the enlistment 
process, vendor enlistment & up 
gradation of each enlistment group 
shall be done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end on 
31st December. A period of six weeks 
shall be allotted against each MEG/ 
CEG, for inviting applications from 
vendors. 
In order to optimize the enlistment 
process, vendor enlistment & up 
gradation of each enlistment group 
shall be done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment Calendar’.  
The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end 
on 31st December. Each MEG/ CEG 
shall be allotted a period for inviting 
applications from vendors.  
11.0 CUT OFF DATE 
TO APPLY FOR 
ENLISTMENT: 
Vendor enlistment & up gradation for 
each enlistment group shall be done 
once in year as per the ‘Enlistment 
Calendar’. The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ 
shall commence from 01st April and 
end on 31st December. A period of six 
weeks shall be allotted against each 
MEG / CEG, for inviting applications 
from vendors.  
Vendor enlistment & up gradation 
for each enlistment group shall be 
done once in year as per the 
‘Enlistment  Calendar’.  The 
‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall 
commence from 01st April and end 
on 31st December. Each MEG/ CEG 
shall be allotted a period for inviting 
applications from vendors.  
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
Amendment in Standard terms and conditions clause no. 7 & 11 (Amendment no 2)
Amendment in Standard Terms and Conditions clause no 9 (Amendment no 1)
Clause 
No: 9.0 HOW TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
Clause 
Amended 
as: 
In case documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the 
verification and certification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from 
any of the TPIAs as mentioned at NTPC tender website 
(https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/) under the tab:  
“Policy Docs”  “Policy for Document Authentication Process in Tenders of 
NTPC Ltd”.  
However, Applicants must verify the accreditation validity of the designated 
TPIA before proceeding to engage them for document certification.  
The following website may be referred for contact details and accreditation validity 
of above referred TPIAs: 
https://nabcb.qci.org.in/inspection-body/ 
Any document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, 
which is not certified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the applicant, as 
per the format enclosed, shall not be considered verified/ certified for the 
purpose of evaluation, and the Application shall be liable for rejection. 
………………………………………….. 
………………………………………….. 
STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS (STC) AND 
GUIDELINESFOR ENLISTMENT OF VENDORS  
1.0 INTRODUCTION: 
NTPC Limited (A Government of India Enterprise), a Maharatna Company is India's largest power utility 
with present installed capacity of more than 86,000 MW with 27 Coal based, 7 Gas/ Liquid fuel based, 1 
Hydro Power Plant and 21 Joint Venture / Subsidiary Power Stations etc,. These projects are located in 
various geographical locations across the country. 
2.0 MAJOR BUSINESS OPPORUNITY: 
The requirement of spares, consumables & works contract for NTPC power plants, offers major business 
opportunity to the vendors & contract executing agencies. 
3.0 SCOPE OF ENLISTMENT: 
NTPC Limited is in the process of online vendor enlistment, for Procurements & Contracts (covering O&M, 
Non O&M / Service departments and Civil works). However, NTPC at its discretion may use this vendor 
enlistment for other procurement activities also. The intent of this enlistment is to identify and enlist 
prospective vendors /  contractors who meet Technical Qualifying Requirements envisaged. This 
enlistment will be applicable for all running NTPC Stations/ Subsidiaries/ Joint Ventures. Vendor 
enlistment process is a  continuous process with the option to add / delete/ modify any Material 
Enlistment Group (MEG) / Contract Enlistment Group (CEG) at any time without any prior notice. Similarly, 
any vendor desirous to get their names enlisted/ updated themselves in the approved list can do so as per 
Enlistment Calendar. However, such request shall be evaluated in the subsequent cycle only. 
Enlistments shall be done for Regular Contracts/ Procurements and also Mega Contracts/ Procurements 
of Estimated Cost as per following categories for NTPC Stations/Projects: 
Category -1: 
(Regular Enlistments) 
CEGs upto 4 Crs 
MEGs upto 15 Crs 
Category -2: 
(Mega Cases) 
CEGs above 4 Crs & upto Rs 50 Crs 
MEGs above 15 Crs & upto Rs 50 Crs 
Enlistment will be done only for Manufacturers. However, for exceptional cases, Suppliers or Authorized 
Dealers / Agents etc. can be considered for enlistment subject to MEG / CEG specific provision of qualifying 
requirement. Decision of NTPC in this regard shall be final and binding. 
Clause has been modified as per Amendment-2  he ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall commence from 01st April and end on 31st December. A period
of 
4.0 STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS (STC) FOR ENLISTMENT: 
This document will be applicable for enlistment of vendors both for services including consultancy 
& non consultanc y and supply of materials, as identified / to be identified time to time, as per the 
requirement of various stations of NTPC. The document explains the details regarding 
the modality and terms & conditions for enlistment.  
5.0 MATERIALS/ WORKS FOR WHICH ENLISTMENT IS REQUIRED: 
Material identified for enlistment are segregated into various groups termed as Material Enlistment 
Group (MEG). Similarly, the works packages are classified as Contract Enlistment Group 
(CEG). Updated/ active list of MEGs and CEGs under enlistment are available at the home page of 
website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/  
Technical qualifying requirements to be met by applicants against each MEG / CEG, are also available 
in the website.  
6.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE FOR VENDOR ENLISTMENT: 
NTPC Engineering Office, 6th Floor  situated at Sector-24, Noida, Uttar Pradesh shall be the 
Responsibility Centre for this subject enlistmen t.
The address and contact details of VEC along with the details of MEGs/ CEGs, are available at 
website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/  
Apart from regular Enlistments, Special group(s) may be published in the portal for 
enlistment/ empanelment/ registration. For such groups, Responsibility Centres shall be as 
indicated in the Enlistment Notification itself.  
7.0 ENLISTMENT CALENDAR: 
  n roup order shall to be optimize done the once in enlistment year as per process, the vendor ‘Enlistment enlistment Calendar’.&  up gradation of each enlistmen  
8.0 UPLOADING MEGs/ CEGs & PUBLICITY: 
List of MEGs/ CEGs with relevant details as mentioned above shall be updated at website 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ time to time.  
Vendor Enlistment Cell will publish the abridged version of the notice for enlistment for the MEGs/ CEGs 
on our websites https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ & www.ntpctender.com as per the Enlistment Calendar. 
ase documents are certified & verified for authenticity through TPIA, the ve 
ification of authenticity of documents is acceptable from any of the following TPIA 
Société Générale de Surveillance / SGS India Pvt. Ltd.(SGS)  
Gulf Lloyds Industrial Services (India) Pvt. Ltd (GLISPL) 
International Certification Services (ICS)  
TUV Rheinland (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
 
 
Clause has been modified as per 
Amendment-1 
9.0 HOW TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
Interested potential vendors / contractors are advised to regularly visit the website 
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ for updates and apply online for the MEG/ CEG of their interest and for which 
they would meet corresponding Technical Qualifying Requirement mentioned against the MEG/CEG. 
Interested vendors are to apply and upload / submit only online the relevant documents (credentials) 
as required for enlistment against corresponding MEG/ CEG.  
No fee is required to be paid for enlistment. No offline application would be entertained by NTPC. 
It is required to submit applications with digitally signed relevant credentials by the Authorized 
Signatory. The same should be uploaded on the website for vendor enlistment in respect of individual 
MEG/ CEG as per required documents/ details and corresponding specified QR.  
It should be clearly noted by the applicant that while applying for vendor enlistment on website, the 
basic and financial information need to be filled up only once. The MEG/ CEG related information 
should be filled up for each MEG/CEG separately. The applicant can apply for as many MEGs/CEGs as 
he wishes, provided that he has required technical qualification.  
Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account (wherever 
applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which 
Applicants submit, will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the 
Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
Applicants, required to submit the details of the past experiences, shall submit all the documents, 
such as copy of Purchase Orders/ Work Orders/ Contract Agreements/ Client Certificates etc., duly 
certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or 
specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA).  
Further, wherever information can be drawn from books of accounts, records and other relevant 
documents, Applicants can also submit a certificate issued by their Independent Statutory Auditor 
certifying the data required in support to their past experiences.  
Such applicant shall be required to submit duly certified and verified documents from their 
Statutory Auditors or specified TPIA along with a certificate regarding verification of authenticity 
of documents as per the format placed at Annexure-IIIA (Undertaking from Statutory Auditor) and/ 
or Annexure-IIIB (Undertaking from TPIA). All the documents submitted by the applicant shall be 
digitally signed by the Statutory Auditor and/ or specified TPIA.  
. TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (TÜV Nord Group) 
. Intertek India Pvt. Ltd. 
. Moody International (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
. RINA India Pvt. Ltd. 
0. Competent Inspectorate and Consultants LLP 
he following website may be referred for contact details of above ten (10) TPIAs: 
ttp://nabcb.qci.org.in/accreditation/reg_bod_inspection_bodies.php 
ny document pertaining to reference works/ plants in support of Technical QR, which is no 
ertified by specified TPIA or Statutory Auditor of the applicant, as per the format enclosed, shal 
ot be considered verified/ certified for the purpose of evaluation, and the application shall b  
The Applicant shall be responsible to get their documents/ credentials verified & certified by their 
Statutory Auditor(s) and/ or specified TPIAs. All the costs pertaining to third party verification and 
certification (including those by statutory auditors) shall be borne by the Applicant. NTPC shall have 
no liability (financial or otherwise) towards the same and shall not be liable for any claim/ dispute 
between the bidder and TPIA and/ or Statutory Auditor.  
10.0 BASIS FOR ENLISTMENT: 
NTPC shall evaluate the credentials uploaded by the applicant to determine as to whether technical 
aspects are in accordance with the Qualifying Requirements set for the respective MEG/CEG. 
Subsequently, at the sole discretion of NTPC, physical assessment of establishment (s)/ verification 
of document (s)/ may also be carried out, if felt necessary by NTPC. Vendor should not have any 
objection to such physical assessment / verification etc. All technically qualified vendors shall be 
enlisted against respective MEG/ CEG and their annual turnover and/or execution capability shall be 
mapped in the system for further usage. The decision of NTPC in this regard shall be final and binding. 
NTPC shall evaluate only those cases, which are complete in all respects, and which are prima-facie 
found to be qualified based on the responses given. Any incomplete request or deficiency of 
document(s) will run the risk of rejection. In the process of vendor enlistment, NTPC may seek 
additional information/ clarification and vendor must be ready to furnish promptly any such 
information, so asked for.  
Any vendor currently under NCLT/ NCLAT or debarred/ banned/ blacklisted/ Under Withholding/ 
Under Suspension of Business Dealing on Pan NTPC basis shall not be considered for enlistment. 
However, such vendors may be considered for enlistment only after expiry of the debarment/ 
banning/ blacklisting/ Withholding/ Suspension period. If any vendor, is debarred/ banned in 
participating at any tender for working/ supplying at any particular station/ region of NTPC, shall 
continue to remain debarred/banned for that station/ region even after enlistment on PAN NTPC  
 
 
 
9 
Clause has been modified as per 
 
T Amendment-1 
 
 
 

endor enlistment & up gradation for each enlistment group shall be done once in year as per th 
Enlistment Calendar’. The ‘Enlistment Calendar’ shall commence from 01st April and end on 31s 
ecember. A period of six weeks shall be allotted against each MEG / CEG, for inviting application 
rom vendors.  
 
 
 
Clause has been modified as per Amendment-2
basis, till expiry of banning/blacklisting period or else banning order is revoked by concerned station/ 
region. 
11.0 CUT OFF DATE TO APPLY FOR ENLISTMENT: 
Identification of MEGs / CEGs for a particular six-week period in the aforesaid calendar shall be 
notified in the portal time to time. Vendors intending to get themselves enlisted within the cycle 
need to apply online within cutoff date. All applications received within stipulated cutoff date shall 
be evaluated progressively.  
Vendor should ensure that only relevant documents are uploaded. After the cutoff date and time for 
any particular evaluation cycle, vendor will not be permitted for any such change. In case, during 
evaluation of credentials, if any additional or relevant documents is required by NTPC, the same 
should be uploaded online in response to the time-bound clarification(s) sought. 
12.0 INSTRUCTION FOR APPLYING ONLINE: 
Interested vendors may open the website ( https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ ) and create USER-ID themselves for 
enlistment by filling USER-ID creation form online. System generated e-mail shall be sent to the vendor 
giving ID & password for authentication & activation. Vendors shall log in to the website with this ID and 
password. After log in, the system shall ask for change of password, ID remaining same. Vendors, in their 
own interest should change the password. 
After log in, the page opened shall show the details required which should be correctly filled in. It is 
required that the digitally signed (by the authorized signatory) document of the relevant credential shall 
be uploaded in “PDF form” as per the instructions shown on the page. Star (*) marked fields are 
mandatory. 
13.0 HOW TO FILL THE APPLICATION FOR ENLISTMENT: 
For creation of User-ID, following information has to be provided: 
a) Notice Inviting Application (NIA) No: Refers to NTPC NIA No., if any. Otherwise, leave it blank.
b) NTPC SAP VENDOR CODE: Existing vendors having NTPC SAP vendor code may fill their respective
SAP vendor code. Other vendors may leave it blank.
c) NAME OF THE ORGANISATION: Registered Name of the company to be filled.
d) Email ID: Refers to email ID of the applicant vendor, which will be registered with the website.
User ID, password will be sent in that e-mail only. Future communication will be made through
this email ID & loss of password etc will also be reset with the help of this e-mail. As far as possible,
company specific e-mail ID shall be used, as this would be used for all future communication. In
case of employee specific e-mail ID complications may arise in future on separation of the 
concerned employee. 
e) Landline no: Telephone no with STD Code to be filled.
f) Address for communication: City, region, country, postal code to be filled.
g) Name of the contact person: The person responsible for future contact, preferably, the authorized
signatory in whose name the Power of Attorney is issued.
h) Mobile no: Cell no. of contact person to be filled.
On submitting the above information, system generated User ID and PASSWORD will be mailed to the 
email ID provided above. 
The vendor has to use this USER ID and PASSWORD and log in to the website for providing further 
information and uploading of required documents and credentials. 
This is explained below in brief: 
A. Name of Authorized Signatory- The person authorized by the company to sign the documents on
their behalf. The competent person of the company should issue the power of attorney in
person’s name.
B. Mobile no: Cell no of authorized signatory.
C. LETTER OF UNDERTAKING (LOU)- The format is available on the home page of website
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Letter of Undertaking (LOU) should be executed on stamp paper of
requisite value. Digitally Signed (by the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same
should be uploaded online along with their application.
D. POWER OF ATTORNEY- Power of Attorney format given on the home page of website
https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Power Of Attorney (POA) should be executed on stamp paper of
requisite value. Digitally Signed (by the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same
should be uploaded online along with their application.
E. Choose Option for enlistment- For Supply or works or both as per their applicable area of business
and credentials.
F. Permanent account no., GSTIN - PAN & GSTIN of the Company. Copy to be uploaded.
G. Other information as asked to be filled.
H. PF Code- Applicable for works contact category only. Copy of relevant certificate to be uploaded.
I. Details of Purchase orders received from NTPC to be filled.
J. MSE Reg no- As applicable Copy of relevant certificate to be uploaded.
K. Choose works category-Vendor has to select the work category such as: Mechanical works,
Electrical works, C&I works, Civil works, Miscellaneous works or other works.
L. Choose supplier type- The vendor has to choose supplier type such as: Manufacturer, Supplier,
authorized dealer, agent etc.
M. Type of company: Proprietorship, partnership etc to be selected.
N. ISO9000, ISO 14000, ISO18500, SA8000 Certification to be confirmed. Copy of relevant Certificate
to be uploaded.
O. Annual Turn Over figure paid up share capital, reserves & surpluses for last three financial years
to be filled and audited balance sheet and profit & loss statement with Unique Document
Identification Number (UDIN), to be uploaded.
P. Date of incorporation- to be mentioned and certificate of incorporation to be uploaded.
Q. Purchase order no, date, awarding company name, and invoice details- are to be filled. It may be
noted that three highest purchase orders copy received during the last five years to be mentioned
and uploaded. It will decide their execution capability. The purchase orders mentioned should be
for the same/similar item(s)/works for which vendor are registering for enlistment. Similar work
definition for a particular CEG/MEG will be available in Qualifying Requirement document.
Documents should be duly certified and verified for authenticity from Independent Statutory
Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection Agency (TPIA) , failing which the
application for enlistment is liable for rejection.
R. Select the correct MEG /CEG as per area of business and credentials being uploaded.
S. Change of entity of organization: Details to be filled and uploaded.
T. (*) is mandatory fields
U. Proof of being a manufacturer – UDYAM Registration/ NSIC/SSI/MSME registration certificate/BIS
license / ISO certificate/ Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department/ any
other statutory document as a proof of being manufacturer of the required material.
V. Acceptance of “Fraud prevention policy” and “NTPC banning policy”.
W. Basic order value and basic executed value of the purchase orders received and executed, other
income etc are to be filled.
X. Information regarding referral to BIFR, Debarment/ Banning/ Blacklisting by Govt/ PSU/ any
Company etc, Debarment/ Banning/ Withholding/ Suspension by NTPC.
Y. GePNIC ID- All prospective applicants are required to register themselves on Government e- 
procurement system of NIC on https://eprocurentpc.nic.in and GePNIC vendor ID is to be
provided.
14.0 IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS: 
I. Fee: There will be no fee applicable for submitting application for enlistment.
II. The applicant is required to correctly select the Material Enlistment Group (MEG) / Contract
Enlistment Group (CEG) for which they intend to get enlisted. They should read the Technical
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for enlistment for the MEG / CEG carefully. The documents required
must be copied, signed by the authorized signatory, stamped with the company seal and scanned
copy of the same should be uploaded in PDF form.
III. Documents which are mandatory must be uploaded duly certified and verified for authenticity
from Independent Statutory Auditor of their Company or specified Third-Party Inspection
Agency (TPIA), failing which the application for enlistment is liable for rejection.
IV. Incomplete applications are liable for rejection.
V. NTPC reserves the right to verify the authenticity of the information / documents furnished as
well as accept / reject application/s in full or part without assigning any reason whatsoever. No
correspondence/ queries will be entertained in this regard.
15.0 ONLINE DOCUMENTS: 
After filling all the required details and uploading the documents online, applicants have to submit the 
applications online. 
The “Power of attorney” and “Declaration regarding authenticity of the credentials i.e. Letter of 
Undertaking (LOU)” are required to be executed on stamp paper of requisite value. Digitally Signed (by 
the authorized signatory of the vendor) copy of the same should be uploaded online along with their 
application. 
All applications received till the cutoff date shall be evaluated progressively. If found eligible, they will be 
considered for enlistment. 
The name of the responsibility centre for processing of the enlistment against each MEG/CEG is 
mentioned in the website https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/ . Vendors should make sure that the submission of 
application is completed well in advance to avoid last minute rush. 
16.0 OFFLINE DOCUMENTS: 
No hardcopy is required to be sent / submitted while submitting the application. 
All the uploaded documents are to be kept with vendor in original and shall have to be provided whenever 
asked for. Failing to do so, may lead to action inline to the NTPC Withholding & Banning policy. 
17.0 EVALUATION CRITERIA & PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS: 
17.1 Application received up to predetermined cutoff date shall be considered for evaluation. The 
received applications evaluation shall start only after notified cutoff date in the priority as decided by 
NTPC. Submitted documents in support of execution of similar supply/ works shall be verified as 
per requirement by the evaluation committee from the respective certificate issuing 
agency. The applicants meeting the technical qualifying requirements  shall  be  shortlisted  
for  enlistment. 
17.2 Physical Assessment: 
For the vendors shortlisted by the respective evaluation committee, at the sole discretion of NTPC, 
physical assessment of establishment (s)/ verification of document (s)/ may also be carried out, if felt 
necessary by NTPC. Vendor should not have any objection to such physical assessment / verification etc. 
The observations/ finding of the assessment committee should also be signed by the vendor being 
assessed. 
17.3 Mapping of data of enlisted vendors (Average Annual Turnover and Execution Capability): 
Average annual turnover and Execution Capability value will be mapped against each 
technically qualified vendor. The vendor has to submit financial details and upload 
supporting documents which shall be the basis for ascertaining their financial capability as 
mentioned in evaluation criteria clause no 20. Presently no pre-determined financial 
criteria (Average Annual Turnover) and execution capability criteria are being stipulated. 
However, all applicants have to upload necessarily the following documents: 
i) Average Annual Turnover (AATO): Audited Balance sheet and Profit & loss account for last
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of submission of application.
Audited Balance sheet and Profit & Loss statement of the company giving annual sales turn
over during preceding three completed financial years reckoned from the date of submission
of application for enlistment, has to be furnished.
Any Certificate(s) / Financial  Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant 
of India (ICAI), which Applicants submit, will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute  of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI). 
From this, Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of the company shall be worked out and shall be 
recorded against the MEG/CEG for the enlisted vendors. This will be the eligibility limit for 
Average Annual Turnover of the respective enlisted vendor for sending tender enquiry later 
(but during the validity period of enlistment only). 
ii) Execution Capability (EC): Three Purchase Orders of highest executed value for similar
item(s) / works during last Five (05) years reckoned from the date of submission of application
for enlistment along with documents to ascertain the execution of Purchase Orders submitted
i.e. Copies of invoices, LR, e-way bills, completion certificate from the client, have to be
furnished. The eligibility limit of the vendors for execution capability shall be worked out as
follows:-
(a) Determination of Execution Capability (EC):
Maximum three work order s as per the definiti on of similar work s shall be considered as 
credential for calculation of the execution capability (EC) in the following manner: 
If the vendor gives one PO wit h highest executed value of P, then the vendor will be eligible 
for tender enquiry up to the cost estimate limited to value equal to "1.25xP" subject to other 
conditions. 
In case of two POs submitted with highest executed values P & Q (where P>Q), then higher of 
the two figures obtained from "1.25xP and 2xQ" shall be the limit of cost estimate up to which 
the  vendor  is  eligible  for  tender  enquiry  subject  to  other  conditions. 
If the company furnishes three Purchase order s with highest executed value as P, Q & R 
(where P>Q>R), then out of the figures obtained from: "1.25xP, 2xQ and 2.5xR", the highest 
value is the limit of cost estimate up to which the vendor is eligible for tender enquiry subject 
to other conditions. 
(b) Selection of enlisted vendor s for sending tender enquiry: When actu al requirement
emerges, based on the estimated cost and completion period required, selection of eligible
vendors from amongst enlisted vendors shall be done as mentioned at Para No. 20.0 below.
Notes: 
1. Vendors, in their own interest, should furnish the orders with highest value(s) executed by them
along with documentary proof for the execution of said orders. It may also to be understood that such
past execution values shall determine their execution capability and eligibility to consider for sending
tender enquiry against the material / work later.
2. Documentary evidence of execution of supply of similar item in the past, only in the name of the
organization  which  is  submitting  the  application  for  enlistment  shall  be  considered.
3. For the purpose of Enlistment, Applicants shall be evaluated on the basis of required supporting
documents submitted for Technical Requirements along with financial documents, order copies &
execution proof etc. Even though an Applicant may satisfy the above requirements, he would be liable
to disqualification if he has made misleading or false representation or deliberately concealed the
information  in  the  forms,  statements  and  enclosures  required  in  the  application.
4. Merely Submission of application form by vendor cannot be construed to mean that the vendor is
qualified & entitled for issue of any / all tenders by NTPC.
5. If applying for upgradation of Execution Capability and or AATO, applicant should upload all the
purchase order and financial related documents afresh. Documents uploaded in earlier cycle may not
be taken into cognizance while evaluating the application.
18.0 VALIDITY OF ENLISTMENT: 
Vendors shall be enlisted for three years from the date of approval, subject to fulfillment of the 
terms & conditions.   
19.0 CERTIFICATE OF VENDOR ENLISTMENT: 
After approval, Certificate of Enlistment indicating enlistment details and terms & conditions 
shall be made available to the enlisted vendors through mail . 
20.0 REVIEW & UPDATION OF ENLISTMENT: 
After the completion of initial vendor enlistment, the enlistment process for this enlistment groups shall 
be re-opened after six months in the first instant and thereafter in next year Enlistment Calendar, for 
enabling the new vendors (who could not participate in the previous enlistment process) and already 
enlisted vendors (who want to upgrade their credentials) to participate and submit their application for 
vendor enlistment / up gradation.
Already enlisted vendors need not apply again as they are enlisted for a period of 33 years. Even then 
if any enlisted agency wants to upgrade its credentials, it can submit the application with revised 
credentials for experience related to preceding five years and for annual turnover relating to 
preceding three financial years shall be considered with reference to the date of submission of 
revised application by the agency.
New vendors: If any new applicant gets qualified in line with the aforesaid procedure, their name 
shall be included in the enlisted vendors list for a period of 33 years from the date of approval.
22.0 E-TENDER (GePNIC & GeM) REQUIREMENT FROM ENLISTED VENDOR: 
NTPC is procuring goods & services through e-tender mode. Enquiry is issued either in Government e- 
procurement system of NIC (GePNIC) or in Government e- marketplace (GeM) portal . Hence, vendors 
are advised to register themselves on GePNIC portal https://eprocurentpc.nic.in and https://gem.gov.in/. 
They require CLASS III Digital Signature (with Organization name), for participation in e-tender. Bidders 
will not be able to receive & participate in e-tender if they do not have the required digital certificate. 
For further details, vendor may visit our GePNIC portal and GeM portals. 
22.A REVIEW OF ENLISTED VENDOR FOR POOR PERFORMANCE:
23.0 FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY:3.0 FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY: 
Provisions of NTPC Fraud Prevention policy shall apply for the enlistments being done. The applicant  shall 
strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention policy of NTPC. Copy of same is available at portal (https://
vdc.ntpc.co.in), under the tab : NTPC Vendor Enlistment portal > Policy Doc.
24.04DEBARMENT / WITHHOLDING / BANNING POLICY: DEBARMENT/WITHHOLDING/BANNING
Copy of the policy "Policy & Procedure for Debarment from Business dealings: of NTPC available at portal 
(https://vdc.ntpc.co.in/) Under the tab: NTPC Vendor Enlistment Portal > Policy Doc.
25.0 DELISTING OF ENLISTED VENDORS 
The enlisted vendor shall be de-listed from the approved Vendor list for the balance validity period  of enlistment 
on the following ground:-  
If any  enlisted vendor does not participate at least once in three years in any of the tenders issued to them from 
any NTPC stations/ SSC/USSC, then they may   be delisted from the approved Vendor List.  
26.0 SUBCONTRACTING PROVISION FOR WORKS PACKAGES 
The enlisted contractor shall only be given the award based on evaluation of the bids. Generally subcontracting of the 
work will not be permitted for site awarded works packages. However, in certain exceptional cases as per site specific 
requirement it may be allowed with the approval of Head of Station but the due reasons are to be recorded by site in 
such cases. 
However, 100% back to back subcontracting will not be allowed in any case.
If any subcontractor is found executing the contract awarded to the enlisted contractor without approval of NTPC, 
action against the main contractor will be taken for withholding/ banning of business dealings as per NTPC Policy.
27.0 COURT OF JURIDICTION: 
The Courts at Delhi shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to entertain and try any dispute relating to 
online vendor Enlistment process of NTPC.  
28.0 SUBMISSION OF UNDERTAKING PERTAINING TO GEM REGISTRATION AND PARTICIPATION IN 
NTPC LTD TENDERS: 
Applicants are required to submit an Undertaking pertaining to GeM Registration and participation 
in NTPC Ltd Tenders, as per format enclosed as Annexure-IV, along with their application for Vendor 
Enlistment.  
29.0 Conflict of Interest: 
An enlisted vendor during their participation in a Tender as a bidder, should ensure that they do not have conflict of 
interest with other bidders. Such conflict of interest can lead to anti-competitive practices to the detriment of 
Employer’s interests. The criteria based on which a bidder shall be considered to have a conflict of interest with one or 
more parties in the bidding process, shall be as per provisions of the bidding documents of the specific Tender.
During the bidding process/bids invited amongst the enlisted parties, the bidder shall have to submit 
their acceptance/compliance of provisions of Bidding Documents, regarding “Conflict of Interest”.  
In case it is established that Bidder has provided any false information in pursuance of the aforesaid 
Clause, while competing for the contract, then its bid shall be rejected and EMD/bid security shall be 
forfeited. In case of a successful bidder, if it is established that the Bidder has not complied with 
terms of aforesaid Clause, during execution of contract, this would be considered as fraudulent 
practice as mentioned in para 5.1 (j) of “Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings” and shall be 
dealt accordingly.  
GENERAL NOTES  
i. Unique fields are not editable.
ii. Only sales / works Turnover shall be considered as annual Turnover. Other income shall not be
considered.
iii. The vendor enlistment is an independent activity which has no link with tendering at any NTPC
stations/ SSC/ USSC. During enlistment process, focus will be on selection of competent and capable
vendors. This process shall not be influenced by any specific ongoing tender at any site of NTPC. Once
enlistment is approved and uploaded, the enlisted vendors uploaded will be considered for tendering
for subsequent cases.
iv. For MEG, Basic value of PO shall be taken into account to determine execution capability. For
Contract / Services only the net contract value shall be considered. Any separate re-imbursement /
escalation shall not be considered.
v. NTPC reserves the right to correct the input given by vendor in respect to turnover and PO / WO
execution details based on the documents. Decision of NTPC in regard to any interpretation including
similar work / similar item shall be final and binding.
vi. NTPC reserves the right to cancel the enlistment at any time with prior notice to the enlisted
vendors due to change in QR or Technical specifications or any reason in the interest of NTPC.
Preferably 6 months advance notice shall be given to the enlisted vendors and during that period
fresh enlistment based on the revised QR & Tech specifications may be completed so that
immediately after the cutoff date, procurement can take place based on the newly enlisted vendors.
vii. Vendor is free to seek clarification / interpretation/ scope / similar item etc before submitting the
application for enlistment.
viii. After enlistment, in the event of any change in status / credential, it will be the responsibility of
the enlisted vendor to inform NTPC timely.
ix. The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and Average Annual Turn Over (AATO)
of enlisted vendors shall be Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs). If any vendor does not submit the
required documents so that their Execution Capability exceeds Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs),
such vendor shall not be considered for enlistment even if they meet the Qualifying Requirement
(QR) of that MEG/ CEG.
( In case of any conflict between Standard Terms and Conditions available on www.vdc.ntpc.co.in  
and this document, condition mention in this document will prevail)
Documents I Details available on Home Page for vendor enlistment 
https://vdc. ntpc.co. in/ 
1. STC for Enlistment
2. MEGs details
3. CEGs details.
4. Format-LOU
5. Format-POA
6. Fraud Prevention Policy
7. Banning Policy
8. HELP Document
List of documents to be uploaded by vendor with application for enlistment 
Applicants are required to upload following documents (digitally signed by the authorized signatory) 
as asked at different stages while filling the application online-
lmoortant Advice; 
Please ensure that before starting "online filling of data and uploading documents" all the 
documents to be uploaded from the list (given below) are converted in PDF form and separate PDF 
file of each document are readily available. 
This will help to complete the document uploading without any trouble. 
A) For USER-ID creation :- Documents to be uploaded as applicable
SL Details Documents to be uploaded Validity Document 
uploading 
1. Permanent Copy of PAN card Mandatory 
Account No (PAN)
2. GSTIN GST Registration certificate Mandatory 
3. GePNIC GePNIC Registration Mandatory 
4. Manufacturer Proof of manufacturing- statutory document as Mandatory 
if applicable a proof of being manufacturer of the required 
material 
5. MSE Registration MSE Registration Certificate (Agencies under Mandatory if 
MSME falling under SC/ST category should applicable 
combine both MSME registration certificate and 
SC/ST certificate in one sheet and scanned copy 
of the same should be uploaded in the 
application on line. 
6. 1509001 ISO 9001 Certificate Optional 
Certificate
7. ISO 14000 ISO 14000 Certificate Optional 
Certificate


ANNEXURE-1: LOU Format 
"LETTER OF UNDERTAKING" (LOU) 
(To be executed on non-judicial stamp paper of Rs. 100/-) 
Date: --.--. ----
Subject: Application for Enlistment 
Dear Sir, 
1. I, son/ Daughter/ wife of ----------- residing at
------------------- is authorized and empowered to make proposal for
vendor enlistment on behalf of M/s. ____________ with registered office at
---------------------J a (proprietor ship I partnership I company
registered under company act). Details of (Proprietor/ Partners/ Directors) of the organizations are as
below:-
Name �on/ Daughter, Residential Address Mention Proprietor/ Partner I Director 
Wife of as applicable) 
2. The Power of attorney as applicable issued by the competent authority in my company/ organization,
authorizing me to sign & upload enlistment documents, is attached herewith.
3. I/ We hereby confirm that I will access the designated web site of NTPC for vendor enlistment with computer
generated User ID and given password changed by me. I also confirm that I shall take all possible measures
to prevent any unauthorized access to vendor enlistment portal on behalf of my company.
4. I/ We have read and examined and understood the requirements of NIA, MEG/CEG specific qualifying
requirement etc. I/ We agree to accept all terms and conditions and subsequent to which desired
information being furnished as desired in the following forms for Enlistment:-
a. Company Information (KYC)
b. Financial details as per Balance Sheet e.g. Turnover, Profit & Loss, etc
c. MEG/CEG related Qualifying requirement (QR) & QR questionnaire
d. Execution Capability (Highest 3 Nos PO/ Work orders execution details for similar work)
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301


ANNEXURE-11/A 
Undertaking from Independent Statutory Auditor 
(On letter head digitally signed by a person duly authorized to Sign on behalf of the Statutory Auditor) 
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
DATE: 
Subject: Authentication of veracity of documents submitted by M/s ........................................ in 
support of credentials for Enlistment 
Ref: NIA no. I Enlistment Cycle no: ...................... . 
Name of the MEG/ CEG: ............................................ . 
Dear Sir, 
M/s .. ........................... ......................................... (hereinafter called Applicant) having Registered office at 
................................................................................ intend to participate in above referred Enlistment of NTPC Ltd. 
We, M/s .............................................................. has been appointed as Statutory Auditor for the Applicant i.e. M/s 
................ ...................... .................. .. (Relevant documents on our appointment along with ADT form-1 attached). 
The Enlistment condition stipulates that the Applicant shall submit supporting Documents pertaining to 
Technical Qualifying Requirement duly verified and certified by Statutory Auditor. 
In this regard, it is hereby confirmed that we have examined the following documents, which are also 
attached with this letter. The same has been verified from the Original Documents and/ or Client for 
authenticity (Strike off, whichever is not applicable). 
We hereby confirm that the following documents are found to be genuine and authentic. 
1. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ............ ... ..... .. (name of Documents) 
2. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
3 .. ............. . 
All the aforesaid documents have been digitally signed by us using official DSC (Digital Signature Certificate) 
as a certificate of authenticity. 
*Further, we have examined the books of accounts, records, and other relevant documents, along with other
necessary information and explanations furnished by M/s .. ......................................................... .
(Applicant) .......... and hereby certify following: .................................................... . 
This certificate is issued at the request of M/s ................... (Applicant) for the purpose of participating in Enlistment. 
Thanking you, 
• Strike off, whichever is not applicable.
ANNEXURE-1118 
Undertaking from Third Party Inspection Agency 
(on letter head digitally signed by a person duly authorized to Sign on behalf of the TPIA) 
Dear Sir, 
DATE: 
Subject: Authentication of veracity of documents submitted by M/s.................................. ....... in 
support of credentials for Enlistment 
Ref: NIA no. I Enlistment Cycle no: ...................... . 
Name of the MEG/ CEG: ............ ................................ . 
M/s .. ............... .................................................. .... (hereinafter calied Applicant) having Registered office at 
................................................................................ intend to participate in above referred Enlistment of NTPC Ltd . 
The Enlistment condition stipulates that the Applicant shall submit supporting Documents pertaining to Technical 
Qualifying Requirement duly verified and certified by a specified independent Third Party Inspection Agency as per 
the list mentioned in the Enlistment documents. 
In this regard, it is hereby confirmed that we have examined the following documents, which are also attached 
with this letter. The same has been verified from the Original Documents and/ or Client for authenticity (Strike 
off, whichever is not applicable). 
We hereby confirm that the following documents are found to be genuine and authentic. 
1. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
2. Doc ref. no . ........... dated ...................... (name of Documents) 
3 .. ............. . 
All the aforesaid documents have been digitally signed by us using official DSC (Digital Signature Certificate) as a 
certificate of authenticity. 
We further confirm that we neither have any vested interest in aforesaid Enlistment nor have any conflict of 
interest in respect of above Enlistment. 
This certificate is issued at the request of M/s ..................................................................................................... (Applicant) 
for the purpose of participating in the subject Enlistment(s). 
Thanking you, 
• Strike off, whichever is not applicable.
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
ANNEXURE-IV 
Undertaking regarding GeM Registration and participation in NTPC Ltd Tenders 
(To be submitted on letter head of Company/ Firm) 
Date: ---/ ... ./ .... 
Sub: Undertaking regarding GeM Registration and participation in NTPC Ltd Tenders 
1. I/We M/s .................... (Name of Vendor Applicant) ......... , Vendor (Applicant) ID: ............. , 
PAN (Vendor), hereby undertake the following (select a orb, whichever is applicable): 
a. I/We hereby confirm that we already have GeM Registration for participation against
NTPC Limited Tenders and our GeM Registrations No. is as follows:
GeM Registration No ........................... .................. ........... . 
b. Presently, I/We do not have a GeM Registration. However, I/We undertake that I/We will
promptly get GeM Registration done for participation against NTPC Ltd Tenders.
2. I/We also undertake that in the event of being an enlisted vendor, I/We will participate
in Tenders of respective Enlistment Group(s) invited by NTPC Limited. Further, in case of
non-participation, I/We shall be liable for action against our enlistment(s) as per extant
provisions of Standard Terms and Conditions of Enlistment.
(Signature of Authorised Signatory as per Power of Attorney) 
Name of Signatory: 
Designation: 
Email: 
Ref. No: 
To, 
AGM(CC&M)
EOC
NTPC LIMITED, 
PLOT N0:A-8A, SECTOR-24, 
NOIDA, UP - 201301
1 of 2 
 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MoU) 
for 2D data processing and interpretation works 
(Summery Sheet) 
 
S. 
No. Heading Details 
1 Title Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for 2D Seismic 
Data Processing and Interpretation Works 
2 Date This MoU is made on ___ day of ________ 20__ 
3 Parties 
Applicant: M/s __________________________, 
registered under __________ Act, having office at 
__________________________. 
 
Associate Partner: M/s __________________________ 
(Govt. Agency / IIT / IISc / PSU / Industry of repute), 
having office at __________________________. 
4 Purpose To establish technical collaboration for execution of 2D 
seismic data processing and interpretation works. 
5 Scope of 
Associate Partner 
(a) 2D seismic data processing (survey processing, plot 
generation, field parameter analysis, etc.) 
(b)  2D seismic data Interpretation (Structural Mapping by 
analyzing the processed seismic section to identify 
geological structures such as faults, folds, etc.) 
(c) Any other work as per tender requirement. 
 
6 Role and 
responsibility  
Applicant shall be responsible for overall execution of 
contract, project management, coordination, submission of 
deliverables, and compliance with tender requirements. 
Associate Partner shall act as technical collaborator for the 
applicant, and all the contractual liability lies with the 
applicant.  
7 Experience 
Associate Partner having relevant experience of similar 
seismic processing and interpretation works for any oil & 
gas industry OR mining sector OR nuclear projects OR 
hydro projects OR similar industries.  
2 of 2 
8 Validity This MoU is valid upto ___ day of ________ 20__ 
9 Signatures 
For Applicant: 
Name_____________________ 
Designation_________________  
Signature___________________ 
Seal_______________________ 
For Associate Partner:  
Name_____________________ 
Designation_________________  
Signature___________________ 
Seal_______________________ 
Note: The above format constitutes only the Summary Sheet pertaining  to the Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) for the "2D Data Processing and Interpretation Works" executed 
between the Applicant and the Associate Partner. This Summary S heet is intended solely to 
provide a concise overview of t he key particulars of the collaboration and shall not be 
construed as a substitute for the executed MoU. 
The duly executed and legally binding MoU entered into between the Applicant and the 
Associate Partner, containing the complete terms, conditions, o bligations, responsibilities, 
scope of work, commercial arrangements, and other contractual p rovisions governing the 
engagement, shall be enclosed as an Annexure to this Summary Sh eet and shall form an 
integral part thereof. In the event of any discrepancy, inconsi stency, or conflict between the 
contents of this Summary Sheet and the provisions of the executed MoU, the provisions of the 
executed MoU shall prevail and be binding upon the Parties. 
Disclaimer: This is an indicative sample MoU format provided for reference purposes only.