NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
SITE ENABLING WORKS PACKAGE  
 
FOR  
 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER PROJECT 
(108 MW ± 5 MW) AND SUB-STATION 2 & 4 
 
 
LOCATED AT 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND, INDIA 
 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
  
IFB No.: CS-6401-301-9        Date:01.08.2026 
Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_110531                   
 
A. NTPC invites on-line bids for Site Enabling Works package for Great Nicobar Island 
Gas Engine Power Project (108 MW ± 5 MW) & for Sub-station 2 & 4, at NTPC e-
procurement portal of NIC at w ebsite- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two 
Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Env elope-II: Price 
Bid) from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope  of work briefly 
mentioned hereinafter. 
 
B. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Brief scope of work for "Site Enabling Works package for Gr eat Nicobar Island Gas 
Engine Power Project (108 MW ± 5 MW) and for Sub-station 2 & 4" package is as follows: 
 
 The work covers three project locations comprising the Gas Engi ne Power Plant site 
 near Galathea Bay and two associat ed sub-station sites located  approximately 5 km 
 and 37 km away from the power pl ant site. Major activities include: 
 
i. Tree cutting, vegetation clearance and site clearing within designated project 
areas for Gas Engine Power Plant and Sub-stations.  
ii. Collection, handling and trans portation of felled timber/lo gs to designated 
locations as per requirements.  
iii. Site levelling, grading, cu tting and filling operations to  achieve the required 
formation levels.  
iv. Construction of 3.6 m high perimeter security boundary wall using precast RCC 
panels with concertina coil fencing.  
v. Associated civil and miscell aneous works necessary for compl etion of site 
enabling activities.  
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
C. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through mix of debt & equity. 
 
D.  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions ar e given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal  of NIC at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:  
 
Bidding Document No CS-6401-301-9 
Documents Download Date and Time From 01.08.2026 onwards 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  17.08.2026 
Pre Bid Conference Date 17.08.2026 from 1100 HRS(IST) 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
Up to 1300 HRS (IST) on 01.09.2026 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I (Techno-
Commercial bid) 
01.09.2026 at 1530 HRS (IST) 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II (Price bid) Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Estimated Cost of  Work INR 56.92 Crore excluding GST 
INR 67.16 Crore including GST 
 
Note: Bidders are advised to visi t the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  o f  N T P C  f o r  
updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC 
portal of NTPC. 
 
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 1,00,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees One Crore only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A 
SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS 
BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS  E-BG/ 
THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE CO PY 
OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is in vited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll th emselves on the website https ://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is m andatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidder s should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also  has the user manuals 
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall b e submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
 
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.  
    
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in thi s tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received  (if any) from Class-II 
Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, wi ll be eligible to bid only if 
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentio ned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Governm ent of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (CS) / AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-9650991817/9650099276 
E-mail: amitk@ntpc.co.in/bmandal@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
Page 1 of 4 
 
 
Approved Qualifying Requirement for “Site Enabling Works package for Great Nicobar 
Island Gas Engine Power Project (108 MW +/- 5 MW) & Sub-station No 2 & 4” 
 
In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the 
Bidder should also meet the technical qualifying requirements stipulated in Clause 1 and 
financial requirements as stipulated in Clause 2 . 
 
1. Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 The bidder should have executed/completed Similar Works during the last seven (7) years, 
reckoned as on date of Techno -commercial bid opening as indicated below: - 
(a) Executed value not less than Rs. 45 Crores in one order;  
                                         OR 
(b) Executed value not less than Rs. 28 Crores each in two orders;  
                                          OR 
(c)  Executed value not less than Rs 22 Crores each in three orders.  
Similar Work  means works  comprising of “Civil works including Earthworks 
& Reinforced  Cement Concrete works in a power plant or Industrial Plant  or Infrastructure 
project (Road & bridges).  
 
 
Notes: 
 
(i) The term “executed/completed” means the bidder should have achieved the criteria 
specified at Clause No. 1.1 of QR above, even if the total contract/order is not completed / 
closed. In case of contract/order under execution as on last date of the month pre ceding 
the month of publication of NIT, the value of work executed against contract/order till such 
date shall be considered, provided the same is certified by the Owner/Project Authority.  
(ii) Reference work executed by a Bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided 
the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by Owner/Project Authority 
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub -contractor in support of Qualify ing 
Requirements. 
(iii) In case of composite work/BOQ, the bidder shall have to furnish Certificate from 
Owner/Project Authority certifying the value of specific nature of work, as mentioned in 
clause 1.1. 
(iv) For the purpose of  arriving at the executed value of order specified at 1 above, basic 
amount only shall be considered. In case of an order/contract inclusive of Taxes, agency 
has to provide the break-up of basic value and tax.  
Page 2 of 4 
 
(v) The bidder can meet the requirements stipulated under clause 1.1. above either in a single 
order or collectively in multiple orders (not more than two or three, as applicable).  
(vi) The value of completed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at current 
price level by adding 5% for each year on prorata basis after the end date of 
completion/execution of the reference work, till the last day of month previous to one in 
which NIT has been invited. The specified value of executed works is excluding of any 
taxes and duties. 
(vii) Bidder should be a corporate entity registered in India under the Companies Act 2013 , as 
amended from time to time.   
 
 
2. Financial Criteria  
 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder  
 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding 
three (3) financial years as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening should not be 
less than Rs 37.50 Crores (Indian Rupees Thirty-Seven Crores Fifty Lacs only) or in 
equivalent foreign currency.  
 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements 
as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of 
the Contract by the Bidder in case of award.  
 
2.1.2 (a) Net worth of the bidder should not be less than 25% (Twenty five percent) of the Bidder’s 
paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial Year reckoned from 
the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
 
And 
 
(b) Net Worth of the bidder should not have eroded by more than 30% in last three 
Financial Years.  
 
However, Clause (b) is not applicable if Net Worth is equal to or more than 100% of 
Paid-up Share capital.  
 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, wherever applicable. In such 
a case, however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, in a combined manner, should 
not be less than 100% of the paid-up share capital. However, the individual Net Worth 
Page 3 of 4 
 
of the bidder should be Positive and for others, the Net Worth should be at least 75% 
of their respective PaidUp share capitals.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100  
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worths and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share 
capitals. 
 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to  furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualificatio n. 
  
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.  
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company.  
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able t o 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Furt her, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as 
on the date of techno commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
Notes: 
 
 (i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and 
free reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the profits and share 
premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
 
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” means the aggregate of the 
balances in the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is 
maintained to record regular transactions such as drawings, share of profit, intere st on 
capital and other owner/partner related adjustments. The aggregate of balances should 
be positive. 
 
 (ii) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial Statements 
of the Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. While 
working out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid evaluation, Taxes 
& Duties separately indicated (if any), in the Profit & Loss account shall not be considered. 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
(iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior 
to the Techno -Commercial bid opening shall be used.  
 
(iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as 
per Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time. 
 
 (v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall 
be considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered Accountant that bidder is 
not liable for audit under section 44AB.  
 
(vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited financial 
statement of last three financial years for evaluating the average Annual turnover, due to 
the incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less  than 3 years from the 
original scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be considered and 
the Average annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below:  
 
a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last financial year only, 
then such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the 
Turnover of the last financial year by 1.5.  
b. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last two financial years 
only, then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the 
sum of Turnover of last two financial years by 2.5.  
 
 
Note for Clause (1) & (2) 
 
(i)     For the purpose of this tender, any reference to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening 
for qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned in the qualifying requirements, shall be 
taken as the date of Techno -commercial bid opening specified in the initial published 
NIT/IFB. 