Page 1 of 3 
NTPC Limited 
 (A Government of India Enterprise) 
Corporate Materials, EOC Noida 
 INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Operation and Maintenance for Electrical system, O&M of RO & STP cum ETP, AC 
Maintenance, and Building Maintenance of Civil and Horticulture Works at NTPC NETRA 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
GEPNIC Tender ID: NTPC/EOC/9900329451 (2026_NTPC_110426_1) Date: 28.07.2026
1.0 NTPC invites on-line bids at GePNIC portal on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. Envelope-I: 
Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible Bidders for aforesaid package. 
2.0 Brief Scope 
a) O&M of Electrical system
b) O&M of RO & STP cum ETP
c) AC maintenance
d) Building maintenance of Civil works
e) Horticulture works
Detailed scope of work shall be as per the Technical Specification/ Scope of Work. 
4.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available at the GePNIC portal (E-tender Portal) at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app . The Bidding 
Schedule* for the Tender shall be as per the e-tender portal.    
Issuance of IFB 28.07.2026
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) 04.08.2026 
Bid Submission Start Date 
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) receipt 
date & time 
1500Hrs on 18.08.2026
Date & Time for opening of Techno–Commercial bid 1500Hrs on 19.08.2026 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GeM(e-tender) portal for updated bidding schedule of the Tender.
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GeM portal. 
5.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount INR 10,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Ten lakhs 
only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. IN CASE, THE 
BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E-BG/ THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER 
28.07.2026 
TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from the e-Tender Portal 
as per specified schedule. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. The bidders can enroll 
themselves on the e-tender website. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed guidelines 
on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted ONLY at the e-Tender 
Portal. 
7.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Annexure-I to this IFB. 
8.0 “Class-I local suppliers’ are only eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids." 
9.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in 
the Bidding Documents. 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
10.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
11.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe that bidder is 
considered qualified. 
12.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids (IFB) without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising 
out of such action. 
13.0 MSE benefits are applicable.  
13.0 Address for Communication 
Sr. Manager (C&M)/ AGM (C&M) 
NTPC Limited 
Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
Contact: 9771440920 / 8544414017 
Phone: 0120-494-6560/ 6536 
e-mail: shilpakareddy@ntpc.co.in / rupeshkumar@ntpc.co.in
Websites:  www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in or https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/
14.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966, 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  
Annexure-I to IFB 
Qualifying Requirements for 
Operation and Maintenance for Electrical system, O&M of RO & STP cum ETP, AC 
Maintenance, and Building Maintenance of Civil and Horticulture Works at NTPC NETRA 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
The bidder should have executed the ‘similar’ work(s) in the preceding seven years as on 
the date of originally scheduled Techno-commercial Bid opening, as per any of the following 
criteria: 
1.1 One work of executed value not less than INR 325 lakhs 
 OR 
1.2 Two works of executed value not less than INR 203 lakhs each 
 OR 
1.3 Three works of executed value not less than INR 162 lakhs each 
Notes for 1.0: 
1.‘Similar’ work(s) means any work(s) which includes the work(s) of civil maintenance, 
electrical maintenance and ‘Horticulture work/ gardening/ lawn maintenance’. 
2. The work "executed" means the bidder should have achieved the criteria specified, even if
the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed.
3. In case of contract under execution, the value of work executed till the date of originally
scheduled Techno-commercial Bid opening shall be considered.
4. The executed value mentioned above is excluding GST.
2.0       Financial Criteria: 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder in the preceding three (3) financial years as on 
the date of originally scheduled Techno-commercial bid opening should not be less than Rs 
406 Lakhs. 
In case the bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on 
its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements 
as above, provided that the net worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the bidder would be required to furnish along with its bid, 
a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional 
and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of 
award. 
2.2 The Net Worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% of the Bidder’s paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year.  
In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of its Holding Company 
wherever applicable, the Net Worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company, in combined manner should not be less than100% of their total paid up share 
capital. However, individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 75% of their respective 
paid-up share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: Net worth (combined) = 
(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100   
where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net Worth which should not be less than 75% of the respective 
paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification: 
(a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.
(b) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in
the bidding documents, stating that the un- audited unconsolidated financial statements form
part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the Company.
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. 
In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. 
Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for clause 2.0 above: 
(i) While computing the annual turnover other Income shall not be considered.
(ii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per
Companies Act of India, in vogue.
Net Worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves 
mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but do not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision 
and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous 
expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and 
surplus. 