NTPC Limited 
(A Govt of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
CC&M 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENTS 
FOR 
Civil works of ICT, 1500 MVA, 765/400KV & its 
associated bay works at 765 KV & 400KV 
Switchyard for NTPC Sipat 
 
SECTION - I, II, III, IV,V,VI & VIII 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO. :  9900330223 
 
  
 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against this Bid Document No. / 
Specification and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise used for purposes other than 
that for which it is specifically issued). 

BIDDING DOCUMENTS 
FOR 
CIVIL WORKS OF ICT, 1500 MVA, 765/400KV & ITS ASSOCIATED BAY WORKS AT 
765 KV & 400KV SWITCHYARD FOR NTPC SIPAT 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900330223 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Section I : Invitation for Bids (IFB) 
Section II : Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
Section III : Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
Section IV : General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
Section V : Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
Section VI        :       Technical Specification, Drawings (TS) & Reference Field Quality Plan 
Section VII : Schedule of Quantities (SOQ)/Schedule of Items (S OI)/BOQ 
Section VIII : Forms and Procedures (FP) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION - I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900330223 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
1 of 3 
 
NTPC Limited 
   (A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
CC&M, NOIDA 
     
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)   
 
FOR 
CIVIL WORKS OF ICT, 1500 MVA, 765/400KV & ITS ASSOCIATED BAY WORKS AT 765 KV & 
400KV SWITCHYARD FOR NTPC SIPAT 
 
LOCATED AT 
Sipat Super Thermal Power Project 
PO Ujwal Nagar 
Distt- Bilaspur, 
Chhattisgarh, India- 495555 
 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT No.:  9900330223  
                                      
1.0  NTPC Limited invites online bids  on Single Stage Two Envelope bidding basis 
(Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid)  from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the Scope of Work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0       BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work includes civil work inside switchyard area of NTPC plant, Sipat, Bilaspur. 
However, regarding specific requirements decided by EIC, agency  shall have to work in 
other areas as required. 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
3.0 Employer intends to finance the subject package through a mix of debt and equity. 
 
4.0 Detailed specifications, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available at  Government e-procurement port al of NIC (GePNIC) at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.ni c.in/ and as per the following schedule mentioned at 
GePNIC portal: 
 
  
Issuance of IFB  As mentioned in GePNIC NIT 
Documents Download Date and Time As mentioned in GePNIC NIT 
Last Date of receipt of queries from 
prospective bidders 
As mentioned in GePNIC NIT 
Pre-Bid Conference date & time Not Applicable  
Last Date and Time for Bid submission (both 
Techno-Commercial and Price)  
As mentioned in GePNIC NIT 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900330223 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
2 of 3 
 
Techno-Commercial Bid Opening Date & 
Time 
As mentioned in GePNIC NIT 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR Nil 
Integrity pact Applicable 
  
Note: Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  of NTPC for updated 
bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by th e Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if app licable) as specified 
above. 
 
5.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid security for an amount  o f  INR 10,00,000/-  (Indian 
Rupees Ten Lakhs only) in the form as stipulated in Bidding Documents. 
 
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPA RATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE THE BID SECURITY IS  
SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUB MIT 
THE PROOF OF E-PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALE D 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
6.0 Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 The Bidder should meet the minim um Qualifying Requirements as stipulated at  
Annexure-I to IFB.  
 
7.0       Notwithstanding anything stated above, NTPC reserves the  right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his co llaborators / associates/ sub sidiaries/ group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such ass essment in the overall 
interest of the Employer. 
 
8.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/wi thdraw the Invitation for Bids 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bid der / intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9.0 A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any i nterested Bidder from 
the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The tender is invited  under e-tendering process. 
The bidders can enrol themselves o n the website https://eprocur entpc.nic.in/ using the 
option “online Bidder Enrolment”. The said website also has the  detailed guidelines on 
enrolment and participation in the bidding process including Bi dder Manual for online fee 
payment. 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BID 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900330223 SECTION-I (IFB)   PAGE 
3 of 3 
 
10.0 O n l y  'Class-I local suppliers’ are eligible to participate in this t ender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
11.0    Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with 
the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specif ied Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country whic h shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder i s registered with the same 
competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to  bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which t he Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of Indi a is engaged in 
development projects. 
  
12.0  Issuance of Bidding Documents to any Bidder shall not constru e that such Bidder is 
considered to be qualified. 
 
13.0    NTPC reserves the right to impose additional performance se curity wherever required, at its 
discretion to safeguard the Company's interests for contract execution. 
14.0    Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
15.0 Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (C&M)/AGM (C&M),  
NTPC Ltd.,  
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex (EOC),  
Plot No.- A-8A, Sector-24, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 
PIN code: 201301 
E-Mail: mayankchaube@ntpc.co.in/ shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in   
Websites:  https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or  
 www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or  
 www.ntpc.co.in 
 
16.0    Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900330223 
            Annexure-I to IFB 
            
Qualifying Requirements for “Civil works of ICT, 1500 MVA, 765/400KV & its associated 
Bay works at 765 KV & 400KV Switchyard for SIPAT”. 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 The Bidder should have executed the work(s) of “General Civil works involving excavation and 
concreting” within the preceding seven (7) years prior to the date of Tech no Commercial Bid 
Opening meeting following criteria: 
 
 a) Single order having executed value of above work not less than INR 6.86 Crore. 
 
OR 
 
 b) Two orders having executed value of above works not less than INR 4.28 Crore each. 
 
OR 
 
 c) Three orders having executed value of above works not less than INR 3.43 Crore each. 
 
Notes for 1.1: 
1.The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the bidder sho uld have achieved the criteria 
specified above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
 
2.In case of order(s) under execution, the value of work execut ed prior to the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening duly certified by Project Authority shall be considered acceptable. 
 
3. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor ma y also be considered provided 
the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority, specifying the scope of 
work executed by the sub-contractor in support of qualifying requirements. Project Authority means the 
owner of the project with whom the main contractor is engaged. 
 
4. Reference works executed by the bidder, as a member of joint Venture /Consortium / Associate can 
also be considered provided: 
 
A. The allocation of scope of work between the partners of the joint Venture / consortium / 
Associate is clearly defined in the executed joint venture agre ement / consortium agreement 
/ deed of joint undertaking and the bidder's scope of work and break-up of quantities executed 
by them as individual contribution in the joint Venture / Conso rtium / Associate, duly 
authenticated by the Project Authority, meet the relevant provisions of eligibility criteria. 
B. In case the reference work has been executed by the bidder i n an integrated joint venture 
wherein allocation of scope of work and break-up of quantities  between the partners is not 
clearly specified in the integrated joint venture Agreement, then for establishing the eligibility 
as per technical criteria above, the credit of executed quantities can be claimed by the bidder 
in the ratio of bidder's share in the integrated joint Venture Agreement, provided the bidder 
establishes that it regularly undertakes works mentioned in QR.  The executed works/ 
quantities by the integrated joint venture shall be duly authen ticated by the Project 
Authority/owner. 
 
5. For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be considered. 
In case contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the breakup of basic value and taxes. 
 
 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900330223 
6. For evaluation purpose, the Value of reference work, submitted by the bidder for consideration, shall 
be escalated each year @5% from the date of completion of refer ence work till the date of Techno-
commercial Bid opening. 
 
 2.0 FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
2.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of Techno-commercial bid ope ning should not be less than Rs.6.43 
Crore (Indian Rupees Six Crore Forty-Three Lakh only) or in equivalent foreign currency.   
 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated tu rnover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the l ast day of the preceding financial 
year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capita l of the Holding Company. In such an 
event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its T echno-Commercial bid, a Letter of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as 
per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging uncondit ional and irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award.  
 
2.2 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial  statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable 
provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification.  
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the bidder along with copies 
of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/ CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidate d financial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial  year as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results  certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is n ot able to submit the Certificate 
from practicing Char tered Accountant certifying its financial p arameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years prec eding the last financial year s hall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial re sults of the Company are under audit 
as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certifi cate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available . 
 
Notes for 2.0:  
 
(i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of th e paid-up share capital and free 
reserves. “Free reserves” means  all reserves credited out of th e profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the reval uation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgam ation. Further any debit bala nce of Profit and Loss account 
and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from 
reserves and surplus. 
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” mea ns the aggregate of the balances in 
the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is maintained to record 
regular transactions such as drawings, share of profit, interest on capital and other owner/partner 
related adjustments. The aggregate of balances should be positive. 
 
 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.: 9900330223 
(ii) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial Statements of the 
Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. While working out 
annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid evaluation, Taxes & Duties separately 
indicated (if any), in the Profit & Loss account shall not be considered. 
 
(iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rat e as on seven (7) days prior to 
the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
(iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary  Company” shall have the meani ng ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time.   
 
(v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under s ection 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 
1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing C hartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered Accountant that bidder is not liable 
for audit under section 44AB. 
 
(vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited financial statement 
of last three financial years for evaluating the average Annual turnover, due to the incorporation / 
formation of the bidder, within a period of less than 3 years f rom the original scheduled date of 
tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be considered and the Average annual turnover of 
such bidder shall be arrived at as below:   
 
a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for th e last financial year only, then such 
bidder's average Annual turnover s hall be arrived at by dividin g the Turnover of the last 
financial year by 1.5. 
b. If such bidder furnishes audit ed financial statements for the last two financial years only, then 
the bidder's average Annual turnov er shall be arrived at by div iding the sum of Turnover of 
last two financial years by 2.5.  
 
Note for Clause 1.0 & 2.0 
 
1. For the purpose of this tender, any reference to the date of Te chno-commercial bid opening for 
qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned in the qualifying requirements, shall be taken as the 
date of Techno-commercial bid opening specified in the initial published NIT/IFB. 
 
Digitally signed by Mayank Chaube
Date: 2026.08.04 10:30:34 IST
Location: NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Signature Not Verified


