NTPC LTD  
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CC-OS
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for the Supply of Boiler Tube Protection Shields  
A) MEG DETAILS 
1.0 MEG NO. 46MEG-10 
2.0 MEG DESCRIPTION Boiler Tube Protection Shields 
3.0 RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE CC 
B) Technical Criteria of QR: 
1. The party should be a SS / Alloy Steel items fabricator and should have at least following in -house
manufacturing facilities
i. Plate Shearing Machine
ii. Hydraulic Press
2. The party should have supplied SS protection shields / clamps / Boiler Tube Shields to any thermal power
plant.
3. The party should have their own handheld Metal Analyzer (like XRF Analyser) or Spectrometer.
C) Documents to be submitted against QR: 
QR-1: Self Declaration by the vendor including make, model of the fabrication facilities and photographs etc. 
QR-2: Purchase Order along with execution proofs like invoice etc. 
QR-3: Purchase Invoice / Latest Calibration certificate etc. 
D) Other Document s to be submitted : In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
technical requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the 
applicants applying for enlistment: - 
1
. Th
ree POs of highest executed values of similar work during last five years from the date of application
(PO date should not be more than 5 years old as on the date of the application) along with copy of invoice
/ completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful execution of supply against
POs.
2
. A
udited balance sheet including profit and loss statement for the previous three completed financial
years reckoned from the date of application.
I
n case the audited results for the preceding financial year is not available, certification of financial 
statements from a practicing chartered account may be submitted. In case, Applicant is not able to submit 
the certificate from practicing chartered Account certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of 
three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format 
enclosed in the application format documents stating th at the financial results of the company are under 
audit as on the date of Application and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
the financial parameters is not available. 
3. A
ny other document in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit.
E) NOTE-1 Similar works means: Supply of Mechanical Spares to Thermal Power Plants. 
NOTE-2 The executed value means the basic value of quantity of similar works executed / supplied 
against the reference PO (also applicable to partly executed POs as on the date of application). 
Where PO value is composite (i.e., including taxes etc.) the applicant to give item-wise break up 
of composite PO mentioning basic value, taxes etc. 


