 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC Mining Limited (NML) 
(A wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC Ltd) 
 
SHARED SERVICES CENTRE – CMHQ-RANCHI 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT. 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT)  
 
FOR 
 
132 kV substation at Banardih Mine for Banhardih Coal Mining Project of Patratu Vidyut Utpadan 
Nigam Limited, a Subsidiary of NTPC. 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
                             Date: 04.08.2026 
 
 
1.0 NML on behalf of Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited invites on -line bids at Government e-procurement 
portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website - https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e. 
Envelope-I: Techno -Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid)  from eligible Bidders for aforesaid 
package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2.0 Brief Scope of Work : The scope of work on turnkey basis shall comprise but not limited to the design, 
engineering, manufacture, testing and inspection at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, transportation, 
transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading and handling at site, storage, insurance, and equipment erection 
including associated civil and structural works and final testing and commissioning.  
 
Bay Details: 
 
i) Two nos. of 132kV Transformer cum Line Bay at Banhardih Substation. 
ii) Supply, testing, installation and commissioning of 02 Nos 132/33 kV, 50 MVA Power transformer. 
iii) 132/33 kV equipment: Circuit Breakers, Disconnectors/Isolators with/without earth switch, Current 
transformers, Surge arresters, Bus post insulators, BMK and Capacitor voltage transformers, Tariff CT, and 
Tariff PT, OPGW terminal equipment. 
iv) Switchyard control room building with associate facility. 
v) Substation Automation system 
vi) HT & LT Switchgears 
vii) 33/.415 kV 1000 KVA station service transformers. 
ix) DC System: 220V and 48 V DC Battery and Battery charger. 
x) 132kV switchyard material Aluminum Tube, ACSR Moose Conductor, Insulators, Hardware, Clamp and 
Connectors, Earthing, Lightning protection. 
xi) Fire detection and protection system 
xii) AC and Ventilation 
 
3.0  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the Bidding Documents, which are 
available at the GePNIC ( e-tender) portal at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the 
Tender is as under:   
 
 
 
IFB No  
 
 
Refer e -procurement portal (Gepnic portal): 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuance of NIT 
Documents Sale Dates & Timings 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any)** 
Pre Bid Conference date & time 
Bid (both Techno -Commercial and Price) 
receipt date & time 
Date & Time for opening of Techno –
Commercial bid  
Date & Time for submission and opening 
of Price bid 
Shall be intimated later 
Minimum Amount linked to safety  of the 
cumulative total of Civil + Installation/ 
Erection + Structural Works portion of the 
Contract 
5.0 % 
 
*Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal for updated bidding schedule of t he 
Tender. 
 
**It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified at GePNIC portal”. 
 
4.0  All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 50,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Fifty Lakh 
only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
  
Bidder may submit EMD amount through E -Payment by Credit Card/Debit card/Net Banking on the GePNIC 
(e-tender) portal. In case EMD is not submitted through E payment then Bidder has to furnish the same in a 
sealed envelope separately offline along with  POA and Deed of Joint Undertaking (if applicable) by the 
stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given below in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the bidding documents, failing which, online bid shall be treated as non -responsive 
and shall not be opened.  
 
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE 
EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. 
 
 IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED AS E -BG / THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER 
(EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER 
IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
5.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder  from the e-Tender Portal 
as per specified schedule. The  tender is invited under e -tendering process. The bidders can enroll 
themselves on the website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class -
3 key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have Digital Signature Certificate  
(DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain  DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt.  of India. The e-Tender Portal  also has the user manuals with detailed 
guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted  ONLY at the e -Tender 
Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
6.0  Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: Qualifying Requirements is enclosed at Annexure-1 to this NIT 
 
 
 
7.0  “Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions 
issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
8.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding Documents, 
will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in 
the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement 
with an entity from a co untry which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is 
registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a 
land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in which the 
Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
9.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
10.0 Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents  and /or submission of Bid  shall not construe that bidder is 
considered qualified. 
 
11.0  NML reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids (IFB) without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder shall have any claim arising 
out of such action. 
 
12.0  Address for Communication 
 
SM (C&M) / AGM (C&M) 
Shared Services Centre – Coal Mining HQ 
NTPC Mining Ltd., 
Ram Keshi Heights, 
Plot No. 123, Old AG Colony, Kadru,  
Distt: Ranchi -834002 
 
Mob.: 9650992515 / 9650992016 
 
E-mail: skvashisth@ntpc.co.in / ksudhakar@ntpc.co.in 
 
13.0  Registered Office 
 
NTPC Mining Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area,  
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U10300DL2019GOI354454 
 
14.0 Indenter Detail:  
 
Sh. Anand Ratnayak Sharma,  
DY. GENERAL MANAGER, ENGINEERING 
 
Mob: 9650998007 
Email: ANANDSHARMA01@NTPC.CO.IN  
 
 
 
Annexure-1 to NIT 
 
Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 
 
 In addition to the satisfactory fulfilment of the requirements stipulated under Section ITB 
(Instructions to Bidders), the Bidder should meet the minimum Qualifying Requirements as 
stipulated here under: 
 
1.1 .0 Technical Criteria for Qualification: 
 
1.1.1  The Bidder should have designed, constructed/erected, tested, and commissioned at least one 
(1) Air insulated substation/Switchyard of 132 kV or above voltage class having at least two  (2) 
bays which should have been in successful operation for a period of minimum 3 months prior to 
the date of Techno- Commercial bid opening.   
 
NOTES for clause 1.1 above: 
 
1. For Purpose of qualifying requirement, one no. of bay shall be considered as comprising 
of at least one Circuit Breaker (3 Phase), two disconnector (3 Phase) and current 
transformers (3 Phase).  
2. Projects executed by Bidder’s group company, Holding Company or Subsidiary 
Company shall not be considered as Bidder’s experience for meeting the QR. 
3. The reference work executed by the bidder in a Joint Venture (JV) Consortium shall not 
be considered for meeting the qualifying requirements by the bidder. 
 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for Bidder Qualification: 
 
2.1.1     The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening should not be less than INR 
3690 Lakh (Three Thousand Six Hundred Ninety Lakh only) or in equivalent foreign currency.  
               
 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, 
provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a 
Letter of Undertaking from the Ho lding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
  
2.1.2 (a) Net worth of the bidder should not be less than 25% (Twenty five percent) of the Bidder’s 
paid-   up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial Year reckoned from the date 
of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
And 
       (b) Net Worth of the bidder sho uld not have eroded by more than 30% in last three Financial 
Years.  
           
 However, Clause (b) is not applicable if Net Worth is equal to or more than 100% of Paid -up     
Share capital.  
 
 
        In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the requirements 
of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, wherever applicable. In such a case, however, the Net 
worth of the Bidder and its Subsidi ary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the 
Holding Company, in combined manner, should not be less than 100% of the paid -up share 
capital. However, the individual Net Worth of the bidder should be Positive and for others, the Net 
Worth should be atleast 75% of their respective Paid-Up share capitals.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100  
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worths and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals.  
 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification. 
  
i. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with copies 
of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.  
ii. A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of 
the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company.  
 
 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are 
under audit as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available.  
 
Notes for clause 2.0 above: 
 
i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free 
reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account 
and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted o r written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus.  
 
 (b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” means the aggregate of the balances 
in the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is maintained to 
record regular transactions such as drawings, share of profit, interest on capital and other 
owner/partner related adjustments. The aggregate of balances should be positive.  
 
ii) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial Stat ements of the 
Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. While working 
 
 
out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid evaluation, Taxes & Duties 
separately indicated (if any), in the Profit & Loss account shall not be considered. 
 
iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to 
the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to th em as per 
Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time. 
 
v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 
1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered Accountant that bidder is not liable 
for audit under section 44AB.  
 
vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited financial 
statement of last three financial year s for evaluating the average Annual turnover, due to the 
incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less than 3 years from the original 
scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be considered and the Average 
annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below:  
 
a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last financial year only, then 
such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the Turnover of the 
last financial year by 1.5. 
 
b. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last two financial years only, 
then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the sum of 
Turnover of last two financial years by 2.5. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 