SECTION – I 
 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Project 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
1. NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited (NTECL), a JV of NTPC Ltd. & TANGEDCO invites 
online bids for its 2 X 500 MW + 1 X 500 MW  Thermal Power Project at Vellivoyal Chavadi 
Post, Ponneri Taluk, Thiruvallur Distt., Chennai, Tamilnadu from eligible bidders for the 
following package. 
 
Description of work Bid Security / EMD Contract Period 
Assistance in Running of NTECL Pipe 
Conveyor 2026-2028 
Rs.10,00,000/- Lakhs                    
(Ten Lakhs) 
24 (Twenty Four) 
Months 
 
2. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK: The scope of the subject package envisages “ Assistance in 
Running of NTECL Pipe Conveyor 2026-2028”. 
 
3. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QR): The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding 
shall meet the Qualifying Requirements stipulated here under: 
 
3.1 Technical Criteria 
3.1.1 The bidder in the preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening 
should have executed Operation and Maintenance of bulk material handling conveyor system 
for a continuous period of one year or more, with minimum system requirements as below 
(either a or b): 
 
a) System includes single Conveyor having Length (Head End to Tail End) of 900 M, rated 
capacity of 3000 TPH 
b) System includes single pipe Conveyor having Length (Head End to Tail End) of 900 M, 
pipe diameter of 450 mm. 
 
3.1.2 The bidder in the preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening 
should have executed Operation and Maintenance of bulk material handling conveyor system 
with,  
 
i. Single (01) order value not less than ₹ 259 Lakhs (Two Crores Fifty Nine Lakhs) 
(or) 
ii. Two (02) orders each of value not less than ₹ 162 Lakhs (One Crore Sixty Two Lakhs) 
(or) 
iii. Three (03) orders each of value not less than ₹ 129 Lakhs (One Crore Twenty Nine 
Lakhs) 
 
3.2 Financial Criteria 
3.2.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial years 
as on the date of techno- commercial bid opening, shall not be less than ₹ 324 Lakhs (Rupees 
Three Crores Twenty Four Lakhs only) 
3.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria, stipulated at Cl. No. 3.2.1 above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements at 
Cl. No. 3.2.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day 
of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish  along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the 
Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Bid Documents, 
pledging unconditional & irrevocable financial support for the execution of the c ontract by the 
bidder in case of award.  
3.2.3 Net worth of bidder shall not be less than 100% of the bidder’s paid up share capital as on the 
last day of the preceding financial year.  
In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies 
wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidders and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined manner should not be 
less than 100% of their total paid up share capital. However individually, their Net worth should 
not be less than 75% of their respective paid up share capitals. For Consortiums/Joint Ventures, 
wherever applicable, the Net worth of all consortium/Joint Venture members in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% of their paid up share capital. However individually, their 
Net worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid up share capitals.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined)=(x1+x2+x3)/(y1+y2+y3)x100 where x1, x2, x3 are individual net worth 
which shall not be less than 75% (seventy five percent) of the respective paid up share capitals 
and y1, y2, y3 are individual paid up share capitals.  
3.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of 
its qualification:  
 
a) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies 
of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company.  
b) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the Holding Company.  
3.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno-commercial 
bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant 
shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results for the 
three (03) consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results of the 
company are under audit as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening and the certificate 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial parameters is not available.  
 Notes for Clause 3.2 above:  
1. Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free reserve 
means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does not 
include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation 
provision and ama lgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus. Practicing Chartered Accountants certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
2.  Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
3. “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them 
as per Companies Act of India.  
 
 
 
 
 
4. BRIEF DETAILS:  
Type of Bidding Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding 
Pre bid conference Not applicable 
Document download start / end date As per details published in GeM portal 
Last Query date (Queries shall be 
entertained up to this date only) As per details published in GeM portal 
Last Date and Time for Bid Submission 
(Both Techno -commercial Bid and Price 
Bid) i.e. Envelope - I & II together. 
As per details published in GeM portal 
Bid Opening Date & Time   As per details published in GeM portal 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time 
Shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after 
evaluation of Techno-Commercial Bid through GeM 
Portal. 
Source of Funding 
Expenditure under this package is intended to be 
funded from internal resources and/ or borrowings by 
the Employer 
Benefits to MSE’s Applicable. 
Make in India Policy 
APPLICABLE (For details refer SCC)  
'Class‐I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate 
in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents/ 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), 
Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ 
revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding 
documents in this regard before submission of their 
bids." 
Preference to Class-I Local Suppliers Class-I Local Suppliers only are eligible to participate 
in this tender. 
Splitting of quantity (MSE) Not allowed 
Reverse auction Not applicable 
EMD/BID SECURITY 
As per details  at NIT Clause 1 
 
All bids those are not exempted must be 
accompanied by Bid Security as stipulated in the 
Bidding documents in the form of EMD.  
 
While submitting the bid for the subject work, please upload 
EMD online along with your offer.  
Cost of Bidding document  Free 
1. Offers where bidders have attached Documents for EMD payment / availing exemption from 
EMD in EMD Cover will be checked.  
In case of the BG is submitted in lieu of EMD, then the BG should be on non -judicial stamp 
paper of appropriate value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the state(s) where the BG is 
submitted or is to be acted upon or the rate prevailing in the state where the BG is executed, 
whichever is higher. Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable BG executed on non-judicial 
stamp paper of appropriate value as per Stamp Act shall be considered non-responsive. 
2. After Techno-commercial bid opening, the bids submitted shall be evaluated for meeting the 
Qualifying Requirements & Technical Requirements. 
3. Only those bids meeting the Qualifying Requirements and complying with the Technical 
Requirements shall be considered for Price Bid Opening.  
4. The date of opening of Price Bid shall be auto intimated to qualified bidders after evaluation 
of Techno-Commercial Bid through GeM Portal. 
  
5. OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
1.  Detailed specifications, Scope of work, Terms & conditions etc., are given in the bidding 
documents. Bid documents can be downloaded from the GeM Portal (https://gem.gov.in).  
 
2.  The Bidder would be required to register on the GeM Portal as a seller. Methodology for 
registration and submission of bids is available at https://gem.gov.in . 
 
3. It is deemed that bidder shall accept all the terms and conditions mentioned in the tender 
documents without any deviation. For that the bidders are required to submit the 
“CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE”  for fulfillment of technical/commercial compliance. 
NO DEVIATION IS ACCEPTABLE TO NTECL. IF ANY DEVIATION IS TAKEN BY THE 
BIDDER IN THE “CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE” OR ANY WHERE ELSE IN THE 
DOCUMENTS INCLUDING BOQ, THEIR BID SHALL BE LIABLE FOR REJECTION. 
  
a) The provisions of Bidding Documents read in c onjunction with Amendment(s)/ 
Clarification(s)/ Addenda/ Errata (if any) are acceptable and no deviation has been 
taken in this regard. 
b) Any deviation to Bidding Documents and its subsequent Amendment(s)/ 
Clarifications(s)/ Addenda/ Errata/ Minutes of Clarification Meeting (if any) as 
mentioned at (a) above found anywhere in Techno Commercial  & Price Bid 
Proposal, implicit or explicit, the same shall not be given effect to in evaluation and 
it will be considered that the bidder complies to all the terms and conditions of 
Bidding Documents without any extra cost to the Owner irrespective of any mention 
to the contrary, anywhere in the bid, f ailing which the Bid Security of the Bidder be 
forfeited. 
  
4. Any Clarification related to the scope, terms & conditions of contract shall be sought under 
Clarification tab of the GeM Portal, latest by the query date as mentioned in the documents. 
Clarifications received after the specified date from the agencies wil l not be entertained. 
NTECL shall respond to any request for clarification or modification of the bidding 
documents that it receives within the timeline specified. 
 
NTECL shall post the Clarifications under GeM Representation tab at GeM  Portal. 
Bidders can view these clarifications. Bidders are advised to regularly check under 
Representation tab regarding posting of clarification, if any. 
 
Bidders must check the Clarifications issued before submission of Bid. Should NTECL 
deem it necessary to amend the Bidding Document as a result of a clarification, it shall 
do so and upload the amendments in the tender on the GeM portal. After this stage, no 
deviation is acceptable to NTECL.  
5. The prospective bidders are invited to submit their Bid comprising of Techno - 
Commercial Bid and Price Bid for the subject package, in line with the provision of the 
bidding documents.  
6. The cost on account of preparation and submission of Bid, negotiations, discussions etc., 
as may be incurred by the Bidder in the process, are not reimbursable by the owner, and 
the owner will in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct 
or outcome of the bidding process. 
 
7. Transfer of Bidding Documents downloaded by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
8. The Owner (NTECL) reserves the right to accept or reject any bid, and to annul the 
bidding process and reject all bids at any time prior to award of contract, without thereby 
incurring liability to the affected Bidder or bidders or any obligation to inform the affected 
Bidder or bidders of the grounds for the Owner’s action. Decision of Owner will be final 
and binding in this regard. 
 
9. NTECL reserves the right to amend/alter/add/delete any provision of this document. 
 
10. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents/GeM, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents.  
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, 
will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority.  
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has 
extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development 
projects. 
11. “Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying 
Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated 
in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI) 
 
12. Bid Submission: Bidders shall submit their offer/proposal as per Cl.No.40 of SCC 
 
13. The laws applicable to the contract shall be the law in force in India. The courts of 
Chennai alone shall have the exclusive jurisdiction in all matters arising under the 
contract. 
 
14. Address for Communication:  
 
 
DGM / AGM (C&M) 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Station,  
Kuruvimedu Village, Ponneri  Taluk ,  
Vellivoyal Chavadi  Post  ,  
Thiruvallur District, Chennai - 600103. 
 
 
Contact Persons:  
Mr. Jaideep 
D.G.M. (C&M)  
Email: jaideep@ntpc.co.in 
Telephone No: 04427926507 
 
 