GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001A-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 1 OF 6  
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) EPC 
PACKAGE 
LOCATED AT 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND 
 (International Competitive Bidding) 
  IFB No.: CS-6401-001A-2  
    Tender Id. No.: 2026_NTPC_110672 Date: 06.08.2026 
1. NTPC invites on -line bids for Great Nicobar Island Gas Engine Power Project (108
Mw ±5 Mw) EPC Package on GePNIC portal of NTPC at website - 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e., Envelope -I:
Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders for
aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.
2. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK
The scope of work includes Design, Engineering, Supply, Erection, Testing &
Commissioning works for Great Nicobar Island Engine based Gas Power Project
(108 MW ±5 MW) on the basis of a single point responsibility for complete EPC
package including civil  works, covering the following activities and services in
respect of all the equipment specified and covered under the technical specifications.
1. Engines (compatible to fire 20 to 25% Hydrogen by volume along with RLNG)
2. Generator with excitation system
3. Engine exhaust system including chimney & continuous emission monitoring
system.
4. NOx Control system (if required) to maintain Nox level less than 80ppm (dry
volume basis corresponding to 15% excess oxygen in Engine exhaust)
5. Engine lube oil system
6. All galleries, walkways and platforms
7. Thermal Insulation
8. Intake gas system
9. Intake air system/ Starting air system
10. Engine cooling water system including radiator.
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001A-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 2 OF 6  
11. Control System
12. Erection and Commissioning of complete plant
13. Arrangement to make gas available at required parameters as per engine
requirement
14. Raw Water Pumps with drive near Reservoir (Inside Plant Boundary) and
associated water system.
15. Compressed air system for Instrument air & Service air.
16. Fire detection & Protection system
17. Fire Extinguisher & Fire Tenders
18. Air Conditioning System
19. Ventilation System
20. Elevator, crane, hoist & Forklift.
21. Complete Control & instrumentation system with all required measuring,
controlling & monitoring Instruments.
22. Generator & Auxiliary system.
23. Power Transformers, Auxiliary Transformer & their maintenance testing &
monitoring equipment.
24. 132/33 KV Indoor GIS
25. MV Switchgear, LV Switchgear & LV Busduct
26. DC System – Battery & battery Charger.
27. HT power cable/ LT Power & Control cables.
28. Station Lighting & DG Sets.
29. Rooftop Solar.
30. Cabling, Earthing, lighting protection
31. Training of Employer’s Personnel
32. Basic Engineering of the plant including preparation of plant design manuals for
the power project.
33. Detailed design of all the equipment and system(s) including civil, structural steel
works included in bidder's scope for the Project.
34. Providing engineering drawings, equipment sizing & performance data, instruction
manuals, as built drawings, O&M manuals and other information for Employer's
approval. 
35. Compliance with statutory requirements and obtaining clearances from statutory
authorities, wherever required.
36. Complete manufacturing including shop testing/type testing.
37. Complete civil, structural and Architectural works, including topographical survey,
providing construction offices, field laboratory, construction equipment,
construction power and construction water. 
38. Packing and transportation from the manufacturer's work to the site including
customs clearance/port clearance, port charges, if any shall be in Bidders scope.
Any infrastructure required for transportation of engines/structure/power plant 
materials till project location (temporary jetty/ connecting road) shall be also in 
Bidder’s scope. 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001A-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 3 OF 6  
39. Receipt, storage, preservation and conservation of equipment at the site.
40. Fabrication, pre -assembly, if any, erection, testing and putting into satisfactory
operation all the equipment including successful completion of facilities.
41. Reliability tests and owner acceptance including the tests for performance
demonstration after successful completion of facilities.
42. Furnishing of spares on FOR (Freight on Road) site basis.
43. Reconciliation with customs authorities, in case of foreign bidders.
44. Satisfactory conclusion of the Contract.
45. Insurance and other requirements for the complete Power plant package in
accordance with the provisions of general conditions of contract of the bidding
document. 
46. One year supervision during operation and maintenance with deputation of 1
operation and 1 maintenance expert post successful completion of initial/trial
operations & Performance guarantee tests including Demonstration tests 
(whichever occurs later). 
47. Execution and completion of civil, structural, architectural, and electrical works for
the enabling township.
The Power plant is expected to run for its life on RLNG as fuel for the project along 
with its compatibility to fire 20 to 25% Hydrogen by volume. 
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
3. NTPC intends to finance Great Nicobar Island Gas Engine Power Project (108
Mw ±5 Mw) EPC Package through a mix of debt and equity.
4. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR
20,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Twenty Crore only) or USD 2,076,500 (US
Dollars Two Million Seventy Six Thousand Five Hundred Only) in the form
as stipulated in the Bidding Documents.
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY 
SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING  NON-
RESPONSIVE. 
IN CASE BID SECURITY IS DEPOSITED BY THE BIDDER IN  THE 
FORM OF E -BG/THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER  (EFT), 
BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY OF E -BG/PROOF OF EPAYMENT  
OF BID SECURITY IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
IN CASE THE BID SECURITY (OTHER THAN BG) IS DEPOSITED  BY 
THE BIDDER IN PHYSICAL FORM, BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE  
ORIGINAL INSTRUMENT IN SEPARATE SEALED ENVELOPE AND A 
COPY OF THE SAME IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001A-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 4 OF 6  
ALL BANK GUARANTEES SHALL BE SUBMITTED IN THE FORM OF 
E-BG THROUGH NESL PLATFORM AND NO PHYSICAL BGs SHALL
BE ACCEPTED.
ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT) WILL BE MADE AT GePNIC 
portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app ) only. 
5. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the
Bidding Documents, which are available at the GePNIC (e -tender) portal at
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule* for the Tender is as under:
Issuance of NIT 06.08.2026 
Start of Documents Sale 06.08.2026 
Pre-Bid Conference Date 18.08.2026 
Last Date of Receipt of Query 18.08.2026 
Bid submission deadline [Envelope-I (Techno– 
Commercial) & Envelope-II (Price) bid] 
08.09.2026 up to 1300 Hrs.(IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for 
Envelope-I (Techno–Commercial) bid 
08.09.2026 at 1530 Hrs.(IST) 
Bid Opening Date & Time for Price-Bid Shall be intimated separately 
Note: *Bidders are advised to visit the GePNIC (e -tender) portal of NTPC for 
updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be 
entertained by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as 
specified at GePNIC portal of NTPC. 
6. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.
7. All Class -I local supplier, Class -II local supplier and Non -Local supplier are
eligible for participation in the tender. However, Purchase preference shall be given
to Class-I local suppliers only
8. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder
from the e-Tender Portal free of cost as per specified schedule. The tender is invited
under e -tendering process. The bidders can enroll themselves on the website
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class -3
key is mandatory for e -tendering activities. Accordingly, bidders should have
 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001A-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 5 OF 6  
 
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of Class 3 to participate in e -tendering. 
Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from agencies authorized by Govt. 
of India. The e-Tender Portal also has the user manuals with detailed guidelines on 
enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall be submitted 
only at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
9.  Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in 
the Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is 
registered with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of 
Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land 
border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same 
competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those 
countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India 
has extended lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in 
development projects. 
 
10. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is   
not permissible. 
 
11. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not 
construe that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
12. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for 
Bids under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no 
bidder / intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
13. Address for Communication: 
Sr. Mgr. (CS)/DGM (CS)/AGM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA   
Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-01204946545/9650997982/01204946537/9650991817/ 9650099276 
 
 E-mail: priyanka@ntpc.co.in /  amitk@ntpc.co.in / bmandal@ntpc.co.in 
 
 Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
14. Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER 
PROJECT (108 MW ±5 MW) 
BIDDING DOCUMENT NO: CS-6401-001A-2 
EPC PACKAGE 
SECTION - I (IFB) PAGE 6 OF 6  
 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
Qualifying Requirements for Great Nicobar Island Gas  Engine 
Power Project (108 MW ±5 MW) EPC Package  
In addition to the requirements stipulated under section Instructions to Bidder (ITB), the 
Bidder should also meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in clauses 1.1.0 
or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 as the case may be and the clause 2.0.0 along with the notes: 
1.0.0 Technical Criteria 
1.1.0 Route 1: Engine Manufacturer 
The Bidder should be an Engine manufacturer who has designed, manufactured, 
supplied and commissioned/ supervised commissioning of at least one (01) Gas 
Engine for power generation, having minimum rating as that of the offered Gas 
Engine which should have logged a minimum of 4000 fired/operating hours since 
commissioning and should have been in successful operation, for a period of at least 
one (01) year, prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
1.2.0 Route 2: Engineering, Procurement & Construction 
1.2.0(i) The bidder should have executed in last 10 years contracts involving engineering, 
supply, erection/supervision of erection, commissioning/supervision of 
commissioning, in the area of power, steel, oil & gas, petro -chemical, fertilizer, flue 
gas desulphurization, cement and / or any other process industry with the total value 
of such contracts being INR 1000 million or more. At least one such contracts should 
have a contract value of INR 300 million or more. These projects should have been in 
successful operation for a period of not less than one (01) year prior to the date of 
techno-commercial bid opening. 
1.2.0(ii) The Bidder shall associate/collaborate with an Engine Manufacturer meeting 
requirements of 1.1.0 above, who shall  also be the supplier of the  Gas Engines for 
this contract. In such an event, the Bidder along with its techno-commercial bid, shall 
furnish a letter of undertaking from above associate/collaborator, as per format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, for successful performance of Gas Engines, 
failing which the bidder shall be disqualified, and its bid shall be rejected. 
1.3.0 Route-3: Indian Subsidiary Company of Engine Manufacturer 
The Bidder should be an Indian subsidiary of a firm meeting the requirements of clause 
1.1.0. The firm meeting the requirement of clause 1.1.0 shall be the supplier of Gas 
Engines for this contract. 
Appendix-I
Further the bidder should have executed/be executing in last 10 years contracts involving 
engineering, supply, erection/supervision of erection, commissioning/supervision of 
commissioning, in the area of power, steel, oil & gas, petro -chemical, fertilizer, flue gas 
desulphurization, cement and /  or any other process industry with the total value of such 
contracts being INR 1000 million or more. At least one of such contracts should have a 
contract value of INR 300 million or more. 
 
Note: 
1. For qualification under clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0, a firm can meet the 
requirements stipulated under clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 above either singularly 
or collectively along with its Subsidiaries (held directly or indirectly)/ Holding 
Company. In case of the firm meeting the requirements of clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 
1.3.0 collectively along with its subsidiary(ies)/ Holding Company, the Bidder along 
with its techno-commercial bid shall furnish a letter jointly signed by the bidder and  
the Holding Company/ all its Subsidiary(ies) extending support to the bidder for 
complying the requirements of clause 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 for successful 
performance of the Contract, as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents, 
failing which the Bidder shall be disqualified and its bid shall be rejected. 
 
2a. The word “executed” in Clause 1.2.0(i) & Clause 1.3.0 means the Bidder should 
have: 
 
(i) in case of Project(s), commissioned the project(s) specified in the Clause 
1.2.0(i)/ Clause 1.3.0 even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is 
not completed / closed. 
(ii) in case of Contract(s), completed the scope of work under the contract(s) 
specified in the Clause 1.2.0(i)/ Clause 1.3.0  even if the contract has been 
started earlier and / or is not closed. 
 
2b. The word “be executing” in Clause 1.3.0 means the Bidder should have received 
the contract prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
3. For Clause 1.2.0 & 1.3.0 -The value of executed works shall be given a simple 
weightage to bring them at current price level by adding 5% for each year on 
prorata basis after the end date of completion/execution of  the reference work, till 
the last day of month previous to one in which NIT has been invited. 
The specified value of executed works (i.e. INR 1000 million or more and INR 300 
million or more) is excluding any taxes and duties. 
4. The Bidder/Collaborator/Associate  should be a corporate entity registered in India 
under the Companies Act 2013 (as amended from time to time),  or in Country of it’s 
origin under the applicable laws and regulations of that country. 
5. An Engine Manufacturer can participate either as a bidder or as an 
Associate/Collaborator with one or more bidder. 
. 
 
2.0.0 Financial Criteria: 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder 
2.1.1 The average annual  turnover (AATO) of the Bidder  on standalone  basis, in the 
preceding three (3)  financial years as on the date of  Techno-commercial bid 
opening should not be less  than Rs. 3469 Million (Indian Rupees Three 
Thousand Four Hundred and Sixty Nine  Million only) or in equivalent foreign 
currency. 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on 
its own,  its Holding  Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided  that the Net Worth of such Holding  Company as 
on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal  to or more than the 
paid-up share capital of the Holding  Company. In such an event,  the Bidder would 
be required to furnish  along with its Techno -Commercial bid, a Letter  of 
Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s 
Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging  
unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by 
the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.1.2  (a) Net worth of the bidder should not be less than 25% (Twenty five percent) of the 
Bidder’s paid -up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial Year 
reckoned from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
And 
 
(b) Net Worth of the bidder should not have eroded by more than 30% in last 
three Financial Years. 
 
However, Clause (b) is not applicable  if Net Worth is equal  to or more than 100% 
of Paid-up Share capital. 
 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net  worth based on the  strength of its Subsidiary(ies)  and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries  of the Holding  Company, wherever 
applicable. In  such a case, however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company  and/or Subsidiaries of the  Holding 
Company, in a combined manner, should not  be less than 100% of  the paid -up 
share capital. However, the individual Net Worth of the bidder should  be Positive 
and for others, the Net  Worth should be at least 75% of their respective Paid -Up 
share capitals. 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: Net worth 
(combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worths and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up 
share capitals. 
2.1.3  In case the Bidder is not able to  furnish its audited financial statements  on stand-
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company. 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening  are not  available, the financial  results certified by  a 
practicing Chartered Accountant  shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is 
not able to  submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
its financial parameters,  the audited results of three consecutive  financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial 
parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the 
format enclosed in the bidding  documents stating that the financial results  of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening and the 
Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial 
parameters is not available. 
2.2.0 Financial Criteria for the Collaborator / Associate 
2.2.1  The average annual turnover of the Collaborator / Associate, in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of techno -commercial bid opening, should not be 
less than INR 1734 Million (Indian Rupees One Thousand Seven hundred and 
Thirty Four Million only) or in equivalent foreign currency.  
 
In case the Collaborator / Associate does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, 
stipulated above on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as 
on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up 
share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Collaborator / Associate would 
be required to furnish along with bidder's Techno -Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking 
from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution as per 
the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support to the Collaborator/Associate to honour the terms and conditions of the Undertaking 
in case of award of the Contract to the Bidder.  
 
2.2.2 (a) Net worth of the Collaborator / Associate should not be less than 25% (Twenty -
five percent) of its paid -up share capital as on the last day of the preceding financial 
year reckoned from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
 
 (b) Net Worth of the Collaborator / Associate should not have eroded by more than 
30% in last three Financial Years.  
 
However, Clause (b) is not applicable if Net Worth is equal to or more than 100% of 
Paid-up Share capital.  
 
In case the Collaborator / Associate does not meet the requirements of Net worth 
based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or 
Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, wherever applicable. In such a case, however, 
the Net worth of the Collaborator / Associate and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, in combined manner, should 
not be less than 100% of the paid up share capital. However, the individual Net 
Worth of the Collaborator / Associate should be Positive and for others, Net Worth 
should be atleast 75% of their respective Paid-Up share capitals.  
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
Net worth (combined)= [(X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100  
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worths and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid -up 
share capitals.  
 
2.2.3 In case the Collaborator / Associate is not able to furnish its audited financial 
statements on stand -alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements of the Collaborator / Associate can be considered acceptable provided 
the Collaborator / Associate furnishes the following documents for substantiation of 
its qualification.  
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Collaborator / 
Associate along with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its 
Holding Company. 
 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements 
form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company. 
 
 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case the 
Collaborator / Associate is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the 
CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the 
financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of techno-commercial 
bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying 
the financial parameters is not available.  
 
2.3.0 Financial Criteria for the Holding Company (in case of Bidder participating 
through Route 3) 
The Holding company should meet the financial criteria as given in clause 2.1.0 for Bidder. 
NOTES for 2.0.0: 
(i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid -up share 
capital and free reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the 
profits and share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of 
the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and 
amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be 
reduced from reserves and surplus.  
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” means the aggregate of 
the balances in the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current 
Account is maintained to record regular transactions such as drawings, share of 
profit, interest on capital and other owner/partner related adjustments. The 
aggregate of balances should be positive.  
(ii)  Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial 
Statements of the Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at 
annual turnover. While working out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of 
QR during bid evaluation, Taxes & Duties separately indicated (if any), in the Profit 
& Loss account shall not be considered.  
(iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) 
days prior to the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used.  
(iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time. 
 (v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable along with a certificate from 
chartered Accountant that bidder is not liable for audit under section 44AB.  
 (vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited 
financial statement of last three financial years for evaluating the average Annual 
turnover, due to the incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less 
than 3 years from the original scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder 
shall also be considered and the Average annual turnover of such bidder shall be 
arrived at as below: 
 a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last financial year 
only, then such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the 
Turnover of the last financial year by 1.5.  
 b. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last two financial 
years only, then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by 
dividing the sum of Turnover of last two financial years by 2.5.  
  
(vii) For meeting financial criteria stipulated under the Qualifying Requirements, financial 
statements on standalone basis will be considered. 
 
Note for Clause (1.0.0) & (2.0.0) 
 
For the purpose  of this tender, any reference to the date of Techno -commercial bid 
opening for  qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned in the qualifying  
requirements, shall be taken as the date of Techno-commercial bid opening specified 
in the initial published NIT/IFB. 
 