1 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC Mining Limited 
(A wholly Owned Subsidiary of NTPC Limited) 
 
 
Invites Expression of Interest 
(EoI) 
 
 
From 
 
 
Any Indian Company/Firm/Consortium of up to 3 entities 
 
For 
 
 
Development of a cumulative total capacity of 50 MWp (DC)/ 40 MW(AC) Ground Mounted 
Solar at Two locations i.e. Pakribarwadih Coal Mining Project (25 MWp (DC)/ 20 MW(AC)) and 
Talaipalli Coal Mining Project (25 MWp (DC)/ 20 MW(AC)) In RESCO (Renewable Energy Service 
Company) mode 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
2 | Page 
 
 
DOCUMENTS FOR EoI 
 
This EOI document comprises the following sections: 
 
(i) Section I : EoI Information 
(ii) Section II : Scope of Work 
(iii) Section III : Instructions to the Applicants 
(iv) Section IV : Consideration of Response 
(v) Section V : Application Form and Annexures 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
3 | Page 
 
 
Section – I (EoI Information) 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EoI) 
EoI No.: NML/Engg/EOI/01 Date: 11.08.2026 
 
1.1 NTPC Limited, established in 1975, is India's largest integrated energy conglomerate with 
an installed power generation capacity exceeding 90 GW. Over the years, NTPC has 
diversified its business portfolio by venturing into coal mining as a strategic backward 
integration initiative to ensure long-term fuel security for its power generation assets. 
 
The mining business of NTPC is undertaken through NTPC Mining Limited (NML), a 
wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC Limited. NML is engaged in the development, 
operation, and management of captive coal mining projects, thereby playing a pivotal role 
in enhancing energy security and supporting NTPC's objective of achieving self -reliance 
in coal supply. In the last FY 2025 -26, NML along with its group companies produced 
44.16 MMT of coal from its operational mines. 
 
      To promote sustainable mining operations by reducing the carbon footprint and 
greenhouse gas emissions associated with its activities, NTPC Mining Limited (NML) has 
embarked upon the development of renewable energy initiatives across its mining 
projects. 
 
      As part of this initiative, NML has already commissioned and awarded several rooftop 
and ground-mounted solar photovoltaic (PV) projects of varying capacities. Building upon 
these initiatives, NML intends to progressively expand its renewable energy portfolio by 
developing additional solar power projects to maximize the share of clean energy in its 
operations, enhance energy efficiency, and support its long -term sustainability and 
decarbonization objectives. 
 
1.2 NTPC Mining Limited (NML) invites Expression of Interest (EOI) as a prerequisite self - 
assessment to understand market response for selection as a RESCO (Renewable 
Energy Service Compa ny) Developer for the development, operation, and maintenance 
of Ground -Mounted Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Projects having a cumulative installed 
capacity of 50 MWp (DC) / 40 MW (AC)  at two locations under NML, along with 
comprehensive Operation & Maintenance (O&M) for a period of 25 years , wherein the 
developer finances, owns, operates and maintains the solar power plant, while the 
consumer (NML) procures the entire electricity generated from the solar plant at a pre -
agreed tariff obtained through competitive bidding and / or reverse auction under a long 
term PPA to be used for captive consumption. 
 
            The proposed project locations and capacities are as follows: 
 
a. Pakribarwadih Coal Mining Project (PBCMP) 
• Location: Overburden Dump-C, Hazaribagh District, Jharkhand 
• Capacity: 25 MWp (DC) / 20 MW (AC) 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
4 | Page 
 
 
b. Talaipalli Coal Mining Project (TLCMP) 
1) Location: MGR Bulb Area, Sundargarh District, Chhattisgarh  
2) Capacity: 25 MWp (DC) / 20 MW (AC) 
 
Note: The capacity of PBCMP may increase from 25 MWp  (DC) to 30 -35 MWp (DC), that shall be 
informed during issue of RFP (Request for Proposal) 
 
1.3 The EoI is completely non-binding in nature and the purpose of issue of EoI is to analyze 
and understand the following:- 
 
✓ Assess market interest 
✓ Evaluate commercial viability 
✓ Obtain industry feedback 
✓ Refine technical and commercial bid conditions 
✓ Identify implementation challenges at an early stage 
✓ Assess availability of competent developers for the proposed capacity 
 
The detailed scope of work, eligibility criteria, terms and conditions, and other 
requirements of this EOI are provided in the subsequent sections of this document. 
 
This Expression of Interest is open for any Indian Company/ Firm,  either individually 
or through their consortiums  of up to three entities , Central Public Sector 
Undertakings (CPSUs), State Governments (including their Public Sector 
Undertakings) 
 
1.4 DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EoI 
 
a. Interested Applicants may download the documents of EoI free of cost from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
b. Publication of Notice for EoI                        :  11.08.2026 
c. Last date for submission of EoI                   :  01.09.2026 
d. Last date for queries/seeking clarifications :  18.08.2026 
e. Response Validity                                       :  08 months from Last date of EoI submission 
 
1.5 NML encourages submission of EoI in soft copy . Offline EoIs will not be accepted . For 
consideration of EoI,  Applicant is required to upload a soft copy of EoI, completed in all 
respects, at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
 
Requirement for registration & bidding by vendor: 
 
      a) PAN card 
      b) GST certificate 
      c) Valid email ID for OTP authentication 
      d) Valid mobile number for OTP authentication. 
      e) Class III Digital Signature in favour of organization (for bidding purpose) 
      f) Vendors are available in open markets for Digital Signature 
 
With these documents user ID & password will be created. During bidding & submission of 
offers Digital Signature is required. 
 
 
5 | Page 
 
 
1.6        Implementation Plan: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Note:  
 
In case an RFP is subsequently floated through Limited Tender mode, NML may restrict the invitation 
to only those prospective RESCO developers who have submitted responses to this non-binding EOI, 
subject to the prevailing procurement guidelines and approval of the Competent Authority. 
 
 
 
Disclaimer: NML reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, cancel/withdraw the EoI 
process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, applicant shall not have any claim 
arising out of such action. NML has no responsibility or liability of any kind in reference to EoI. 
 
 
EOI Floated by 
NML 
Preparation of SOW, TS, 
QR and Bidding document 
based on the inputs 
gathered from EOI 
Issue of RFP (Request 
for Proposal)/ bid of 
Solar plant in Limited 
Tender/Open Tender 
Technical and 
Financial Evaluation of 
bids received and 
Selection of Developer 
PPA Signing with 
NML as per the 
approval receipt 
from NML 
Plant 
Construction 
and 
Commissioning 
Supply of Power 
Developer Raise 
monthly Invoice 
and bill payment 
6 | Page 
 
 
 
Section - II  
Scope of Work 
 
1. 25 MWp (DC)/ 20 MW (AC) Ground-Mounted Solar on Dump-C of PBCMP 
 
i. Land Availability and Site Conditions for Proposed 25 MWp Ground -Mounted 
Solar PV Plant 
 
At present, the total top surface area of Dump-C at an elevation of approximately 90 m at 
PBCMP is about 150 hectares, and the dump is still undergoing expansion. For the present 
proposal, approximately 80 acres of the available dump-top area is tentatively earmarked for 
installation of the proposed 25 MWp Ground -Mounted Solar PV Plant . This area is 
indicative only and may vary based on detailed engineering requirements. 
During the detailed site survey, if the s elected RESCO Developer determines that additional 
land is required for optimal plant layout, the Developer shall submit the proposed Solar PV 
Plant layout along with the justification for the additional land requirement for approval by 
NML, which if found justified shall be spared by NML.  The available land shall require minor 
site levelling and minor site preparation and shall be covered under developer’s scope  
 
Since the available land area may undergo minor changes during detailed engineering, all 
prospective bidders are strongly advised to visit the site prior to submission of bids to 
familiarize themselves with the prevailing site conditions and avoid any uncertainty or 
ambiguity during project execution. 
 
The identified portion of Dump -C has already attained its ultimate design height and has 
remained stable through approximately 2 –3 monsoon seasons. The dump profile is nearly 
flat, with a topsoil layer of approximately 5 –8 m placed over the overburden material. The 
elevation of the proposed solar installation area varies between 85.19 m and 92.86 m, with 
an average elevation of 89.28 m above the reference level. 
The overall slope angle of the dump varies from 13° to 24°. Geotechnical stability analysis 
indicates that the Factor of Safety under drained conditions ranges from 1.59 to 2.82, which 
exceeds the minimum long -term stability requirement of 1.50 stipulated in DGMS Circular 
No. 03 of 2020 dated 16.01.2020. Accordingly, the proposed dump area satisfies the stability 
criteria for long-term installation of the Solar PV Plant. 
 
A layout of the proposed land identified for the 25 MWp Ground -Mounted Solar PV Plant is 
enclosed with this document for reference. 
 
Further, NML has recently carried out a Geotechnical Investigation in the vicinity of the 
proposed solar plant area. The corresponding geotechnical investigation report, containing 
the soil and subsurface characteristics, is also enclosed. The report is intended to provide 
preliminary geotechnical information to prospective bidders. However, the successful 
RESCO Developer shall independently verify the site  conditions and carry out any additional 
investigations considered necessary during detailed engineering and design. 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
7 | Page 
 
ii. Brief Technical Specification (As per NML expectations) 
 
✓ The developer shall develop Solar plant of capacity 25 MWp (DC) / 20 MW (AC), with 
minimum DC/AC ratio to be 1.25.  
✓ There is no any requirement of land acquisition 
✓ Solar Panel >= 590 Wp, DCR compliant and in adherence to latest circular/Guidelines 
published by MNRE 
✓ Time Schedule for completion of work shall be 18 months 
✓ Scope of construction of transmission line for evacuation of Solar power belongs to NML, 
however, developer to ensure construction of double circuit transmission line using ACSR 
Panther till termination to NML’s existing transmission line, which shall be 0.5-1 km 
✓ Construction power and water shall be in developer’s scope. 
✓ Minimum value of CUF shall be 22% 
✓ All clearances required shall be arranged by developer such as MNRE, Chief 
Electrical Inspector clearance, CEA, DGMS, DISCOM, connectivity clearance etc. 
✓ Metering Facility (Generation gross meter) along with SCADA  to be provided as per 
Technical Specifications and shall be installed a t strategic locations in consultation with 
NML 
✓ Developer shall adhere to NML’s Gate pass system in the Project site. Medical health 
check-up shall be conducted at site locations of all the personnels involve d in installation 
work. Safety Clearance to be sought before start of work from NML Safety Dept. 
Relevant permit for Heavy machineries to be taken from NML site. 
✓ Provision of dry robotics cleaning system with a provision of wet cleaning system 
✓ It should be ensured by the developer that the Dump surface is not g ets damaged during 
installation of Solar panels and also during the O&M period 
✓ The developer shall construct a drain arrangement with suitable slope to avoid any 
chance of accumulation of water (after cleaning of Solar panels) on the Dump and shall 
connect the drain with the main drain available at Dump-C  
✓ The developer shall install suitable reactive compensation equipment for compliance of 
 
8 | Page 
 
 dynamic reactive power compensation at rated capacity under CEA technical standard of 
connectivity to Grid and “Report of the Working Group in respect of Data Submission 
Procedure And Verification of Compliance to CEA Regulations on Technical Standards 
for Connectivity to the Grid by RE Generators July 2022” 
✓ The developer shall take all necessary safety measures during erection as well as during 
operation and maintenance including compliance to specific safety guidelines at Chapter 
X, sl. No 121 of CEA safety regulations 2023 
✓ Providing chain link fencing across the overall solar layout, gates and strategic location 
and bitumen road from main gate to control room 
✓ Insurance:  
➢ Before commencement of the work, the developer shall ensure that all its 
employees and representatives are covered by suitable insurance against any 
damage, loss, injury or death arising out of the execution of the work. 
➢  Liquidation, Death, Bankruptcy etc., shall be the responsibility of Contractor. 
Further the developer may refer to relevant clauses of GCC, SCC and the 
contract agreement of IFB. 
➢ The developer shall take third party liability for deployed workmen, employees 
against any damage, loss, injury or death arising out of the O&M work 
➢ The developer shall further take Fire and peril insurance policy covering the risk of 
damage, theft of material/ equipment/ properties after completion of the work(s) 
throughout the O&M period. The insurance shall be for the replacement value of 
the project to ensure guaranteed minimum generation. 
✓ The developer shall seek Engineering approval from NML regarding selection of critical 
items like Solar PV module, Inverter, IDT, HT Board, LT Board, RMS, SCADA, Layout 
drawings including Civil etc 
✓ NML shall implement and enforce an approved Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) during 
both the project execution and the Operation & Maintenance (O&M) periods 
 
2. 25 MWp (DC)/ 20 MW (AC) Ground-Mounted Solar on MGR Bulb area of TLCMP 
 
Land Availability and Site Conditions for Proposed 25 MWp Ground-Mounted Solar PV 
Plant 
 
At present, the total available surface area of MGR Bulb area at TLCMP is 112 acre, out of 
which 80 acre shall be spared for installation of the proposed 25 MWp Ground -Mounted 
Solar PV Plant. This area is indicative only and may vary based on detailed engineering 
requirements. 
 
 
9 | Page 
 
 
During the detailed site survey, if the s elected RESCO Developer determines that additional 
land is required for optimal plant layout, the Developer shall submit the proposed Solar PV 
Plant layout along with the justification for the additional land requirement for approval by 
NML, which if found justified shall be spared by NML. The available land shall require 
mandatory site levelling and site preparation and shall be covered under developer’s scope 
 
Since the available land area may undergo minor changes during detailed engineering, all 
prospective bidders are strongly advised to visit the site prior to submission of bids to 
familiarize themselves with the prevailing site conditions and avoid any uncertainty or 
ambiguity during project execution. 
 
A layout of the proposed land identified for the 25 MWp Ground -Mounted Solar PV Plant is 
enclosed with this document for reference. 
 
i. Brief Technical Specification 
 
✓ The developer shall develop Solar plant of capacity 25 MWp (DC) / 20 MW (AC), with 
minimum DC/AC ratio to be 1.25.  
✓ There is no any requirement of land acquisition 
✓ Solar Panel >=590 Wp, DCR compliant and in adherence to latest circular/Guidelines 
published by MNRE 
✓ Time Schedule for completion of work shall be 15 months 
✓ Scope of construction of transmission line for evacuation of Solar power from the 
proposed Solar plant location till NML’s owned 132/33 KV sub -station shall also belongs 
to developer. The evacuation voltage is 33 KV and overall line length is 1-2 km 
✓ Construction power and water shall be in developer’s scope. 
✓ Minimum value of CUF shall be 22% 
✓ All clearances required shall be arranged by developer such as MNRE, Chief 
Electrical Inspector clearance, CEA, DGMS, DISCOM,  Forest clea rance, connectivity 
clearance etc. 
✓ Metering Facility (Generation gross meter) along with SCADA  to be provided as per 
Technical Specifications and shall be installed a t strategic locations in consultation with 
NML. 
✓ Developer shall adhere to NML’s Gate pass system in the Project site. Medical health 
check-up shall be conducted at site locations of all the personnels involve d in installation 
work. Safety Clearance to be sought before start of work from NML Safety Dept. 
Relevant permit for Heavy machineries to be taken from NML site. 
✓ Provision of dry robotics cleaning system with a provision of wet cleaning system 
✓ It should be ensured by the developer that the Bulb area  is not get s damaged during 
installation of Solar panels and also during the O&M period 
 
10 | 
Page 
 
✓ The developer shall construct a drain arrangement with suitable slope to avoid any  
chance of accumulation of water (after cleaning of Solar panels) on the bulb area and 
shall connect the drain with the main drain  
✓ The developer shall install suitable reactive compensation equipment for compliance of 
dynamic reactive power compensation at rated capacity under CEA technical standard of 
connectivity to Grid and “Report of the Working Group in respect of Data Submission 
Procedure And Verification of Compliance to CEA Regulations on Technical Standards 
for Connectivity to the Grid by RE Generators July 2022” 
✓ The developer shall take all necessary safety measures during erection as well as during 
operation and maintenance including compliance to specific safety guidelines at Chapter 
X, sl. No 121 of CEA safety regulations 2023 
✓ Providing chain link fencing across the overall solar layout, gates and strategic location 
and bitumen road from main gate to control room 
✓ Insurance:  
➢ Before commencement of the work, the contractor shall ensure that all its 
employees and representatives are covered by suitable insurance against any 
damage, loss, injury or death arising out of the execution of the work. Liquidation, 
Death, Bankruptcy etc., shall be the responsibility  of developer. Further the 
developer may refer to relevant clauses of GCC, SCC and the contract 
agreement of IFB. 
➢ The developer shall take third party liability for deployed workmen, employees 
against any damage, loss, injury or death arising out of the O&M work 
➢ The developer shall further take Fire and peril insurance policy covering the risk of 
damage, theft of material/ equipment/ properties after completion of the work(s) 
throughout the O&M period. The insurance shall be for the replacement value of 
the project to ensure guaranteed minimum generation. 
✓ The developer shall seek Engineering approval from NML regarding selection of critical 
items like Solar PV module, Inverter, IDT, HT Board, LT Board, RMS, SCADA, Layout 
drawings including Civil, Transmission line corridor etc 
✓ NML shall implement and enforce an approved Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) during 
both the project execution and the Operation & Maintenance (O&M) periods 
 
Other Common Terms and Conditions: 
 
✓ The mentioned plot s of land of both locations have been acquired by NML under the 
provision of CBA act. NML shall further move to leasing of the land acquired under the 
Policy Guidelines dtd 22.04.2022, issued by MoC  for use of land acquired under the Coal 
Bearing Area (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957. As per the Policy guidelines, NML , 
,being the Coal company shall is empowered to impose fix lease rent as per the 
 
 
11 | 
Page 
 
 prevalent rules and regulation. NML shall disclose lease rate during publication of RFS of 
bids. 
 
✓ There will be provision of penalties on account of shortfall in generation/safety breach or 
breach of any conditions mentioned in the PPA. 
 
 
3. INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EoI) 
 
i. The purpose of this EOI is to evaluate the upcoming RESCO Developers, their techno-
commercial requirements, to initiate the process of publication of RF P (Request for 
Proposal) to share NML expectations to enter into a long-term sourcing partnership. 
 
ii. The interested applicants will specify in their response, the technical specification, tariff 
range, timelines, footprint and other data as detailed in Annexure -3. NML reserves the 
right to implement the project through a separate Request for Proposal/Bidding Process 
(RFP) process amongst the shortlisted parties identified through this EoI Process or 
through a separate tender. 
 
iii. The response(s) received in the EoI will be utilized by NML for: 
 
a) Identification and evaluation of prospective RESCO Developers based on their 
techno-commercial capabilities, financial strength, execution experience, 
operational track record, and overall credibility. The techno -commercial inputs 
received from the shortlisted developers shall be analyzed to facilitate informed 
decision-making for the long-term sourcing of solar power 
                  AND/OR 
 
b) Formulation of specifications and Qualifying Criteria 
 
The Applicants may express their interest in respect of their offerings along with other 
inputs as indicated in relevant Annexures/formats. 
12 | Page 
 
 
 
 
Section - III 
Instructions to the Applicants 
 
1. The Applicants should note that: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EoI or any query/clarifications/correspondences shall be 
in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, Application Form and Annexures given in Section-V shall 
be duly filled and uploaded by the applicant in soft copy at https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section -I and Section -II thoroughly  before filling and 
submitting the application form and annexures in Section-V. 
 
d. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two persons, with complete 
address, phone number and email id. 
 
e. NML may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents and/ or seek 
clarifications from the Applicant(s) after the Deadline for submission of response, inter  
alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities in their responses. 
 
2. Enquiries and clarifications 
 
Any clarifications on the EoI may be sought to the following via e-mail: 
To: skvashisth@ntpc.co.in 
CC to: abhishekkumar01@ntpc.co.in 
 
3. Corrigendum 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EoIs, NML may, for any reason, whether 
at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by an Applicant, modify the 
EoI document. The amendment will be posted on the website and will be binding on the 
Applicants and the Applicant will give due consideration to the same, while they submit 
their EoIs, and would invariably enclose documents/ information, as required, on account 
of the amendment, as a part of the EoI. NML may, at its discretion, extend the deadline for 
the submission of EoIs. 
 
4. Preparation of the response to EoI 
 
The application of EoI consists of the following: 
(a) Annexure 1, 2 & 3 of Section-V 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
13 | Page 
 
 
 
5. Validity of the responses 
 
The Applicant shall submit the responses which shall remain valid up to Eight Month (08) 
months after the response Deadline (“Response Validity”). NML reserves the right to reject 
any response, which does not meet the afore-mentioned validity requirement. 
 
NML may solicit the Applicant’s consent for an extension of the period of validity of the 
response. The request and the response in this regard shall be in writing. In the event any 
Applicant refuses to extend its response validity as requested by NML, NML shall 
terminate processing of such Applicant’s responses. An Applicant accepting NML request 
for validity extension shall not be permitted to modify its response. 
6. Submission of the response to EoI 
The responses to the EoI are to be uploaded by the applicant in soft copy  at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/  
 
Draft Format: 
 
 
Ref. EoI No. 
Date 
 
 
 
Submitted to: 
 
 
Envelope: Original / Copy #  
 
Due date of Opening:   
Name, designation & address of the concerned officer of NML 
 
Submitted by: 
Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized 
signatory in whose favour the Power of Attorney is issued. 
 
The responses to the EoI should be submitted within the Deadline for submission.  
 
7. Opening of responses to the EoI 
 
The responses to the EoI shall be opened as per the time & date as mentioned in Section-
I. In the event of any of above dates falling on a day which is not a working day or which is 
a public holiday, the responses shall be opened on the next working day at the same time. 
 
8. Costs and expenses towards response to EoI 
 
The Applicants shall be responsible for all the costs associated with the preparation of the 
response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution of the documents 
related with this EoI, NML shall not be responsible in  any way for such costs, regardless 
of the conduct or outcome of this short-listing/ selection process. 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
14 | Page 
 
 
9. Confidentiality 
 
The Applicants undertake to hold in confidence this EoI and any document related or 
pursuant to this EoI and not to disclose the terms and conditions of the transaction 
contemplated hereby to third parties, except: 
 
(a) To their professional advisors; 
(b) To their officers, contractors, employees, agents or representatives, financiers, who 
need to have access to such information for the proper performance of their 
activities; 
(c) Disclosures required under applicable Law, without the prior written consent of the 
other parties of the agreement concerned. 
 
Provided that the Applicant(s) agrees and acknowledges that NML may at any time, 
disclose the terms and conditions of this EoI and any document related or pursuant to this 
EoI to any person, to the extent stipulated under the applicable Law. 
 
10. Disclaimer 
 
(a) This Expression of Interest (EoI) has been prepared by NML for response from any Indian 
Company/Firm/Consortium of up to 3 entities  to explore Strategic Module Sourcing Tie 
ups or to understand the framework for Contract to appoint RESCO Developer(s). 
 
(b) In submitting an expressed EoI in response to the notice for EoI, the Applicant certif ies 
that it understands,  accepts and agrees to the disclaimers in the notice for EOI. Nothing 
contained in any other provision of the EoI nor any statements made orally or in writing by 
any person or party shall have the effect of negating or superseding any of the 
disclaimers set forth herewith. 
 
 
 
15 | Page 
 
 
 
 
Section-IV 
Consideration of Response 
 
RESPONSIVENESS/EVALUATION METHODOLOGY 
 
1. Responsiveness check 
 
The responses submitted by Applicants shall be scrutinized w.r.t the intent of the 
specifications as outline d in the EOI Document. Responses shall be deemed non -
responsive for following reasons: 
 
a. Responses that are incomplete, i.e. not accompanied by any of the applicable 
formats inter alia covering letter, power of attorney, applicable undertakings, 
provided in more details at annexures in Section-V; 
 
b. Responses not accompanied by Essential Information as prescribed in various 
Annexures in Section-V. 
 
c. Responses not signed by authorized signatory and / or stamped in the manner 
indicated in this EoI; 
 
d. Material inconsistencies in the information/ documents submitted by the Applicant 
 
e. An Applicant submitting more than one response to this EoI either itself or through 
an affiliate or subsidiary company; 
 
f. Response validity being less than that required as per section-III of this EoI; 
 
g. Response being conditional in nature; 
 
h. Response not uploaded by the response Deadline in soft copy  at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/; 
 
i. Response having Conflict of Interest; 
 
j. Applicant delaying in submission of additional information or clarifications sought by 
NML, as applicable; 
 
All EOIs that shall meet the responsive check requirements set out above in this section 
of the  EoI document shall be considered as responsive. In case of non-submission of 
relevant details as above, the responses may be considered as “ Nonresponsive”, at the 
sole discretion of NML and will not be considered further. 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
16 | Page 
 
 
 
 
Section-V 
Application Form & Annexures 
 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
 
Date :   
Place:   
 
To, 
……………………………. 
 
Sub.: (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
Ref.: EoI No.  , dated   (the “EoI”) 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined and understood 
in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). We confirm that neither we nor 
any of our Parent Company/ Affiliate/ Ultimate Parent Company has submitted responses other 
than this response directly or indirectly in response to the aforesaid EoI. 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EoI, issued by NML, as amended. In token of our 
acceptance to the EoI, the same have been signed & stamped by us and enclosed to the 
response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EoI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per provisions and formats of the EoI, without any 
deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by NML 
in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EoI shall be binding on us. We hereby 
expressly waive any and all claims in respect of EoI process. We confirm that there are no 
litigations or disputes against us, which materially affect our ability to participate or function 
under the obligations with regard to EoI. 
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name : 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
email id: 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
17 | Page 
 
 
 
5. We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in 
electronic format as per the EoI for consideration. 
 
6. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of submission 
as stated in the EoI and subsequent communications from NML, if any. 
7. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the requirements 
stipulated in the EoI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and understanding. 
We would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response. 
 
8. We confirm that all the terms and conditions of our response are valid for acceptance 
for a period of eight (08) months from the response Deadline. 
 
9. We confirm that we have not taken any deviation so as to be deemed “ Non-
Responsive” as stipulated in Section-IV of this EoI. 
 
10. We understand that you are not bound to accept any response you receive. 
 
We remain, 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person in whose name Power of Attorney 
is issued) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
18 | Page 
 
(Annexure-1) 
 
 
Developer Feedback Questionnaire (Techno-Commercial) 
 
 
1) a. Whether your organization is interested in developing a Solar PV project under RESCO model at 
NTPC Mining locations? (Please Tick) 
 
Yes No 
 
b. Minimum project capacity considered economically viable by your organization is? 
 
                                                             MW (AC) 
 
c. Preferred project capacity by your organization is?     
 
 
 
2) Based on the brief scope of work, please indicate an indicative range of tariff (₹/kWh) considering 
broad project assumptions (non-binding) 
 
25 MWp(DC)/20 MW(AC) on Dump-C of PBCMP 25 MWp(DC)/20 MW(AC) on MGR Bulb of TLCMP 
Min    ₹                 per kWh Min    ₹                 per kWh 
Max   ₹                 per kWh Max   ₹                 per kWh 
 
List of Key assumptions considered: (You may add more rows) 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
 
3) Please provide your views on any challenges for development of Solar PV systems on mine OB 
dump of PBCMP and Bulb area of TLCMP 
 
Key Challenges are as follows: 
 
PBCMP TLCMP 
1. 1. 
2. 2. 
3. 3. 
4. 4. 
5. 5. 
 
 
4) Please provide inputs on the following 
 
 
 
                                                             MW (AC) 
19 | Page 
 
a. Module Technology  
b. Mounting Structure  
c. Tracker requirement (Yes/No)  
d. Inverter Type  
e. Cleaning Technology for PBCMP  
f. Cleaning Technology for TLCMP  
g. Preferred foundation type for PBCMP  
h. Preferred foundation type for TLCMP  
i. Drainage/slope stabilization 
recommendations for PBCMP 
 
j. Drainage/slope stabilization 
recommendations for TLCMP 
 
k. Any special requirement for PBCMP  
l. Any special requirement for TLCMP  
 
 
5) Performance Commitments 
  
       Please indicate achievable guarantees for both the locations. 
 
 
 PBCMP TLCMP 
a) Guaranteed Performance 
Ratio (PR) in % 
  
b) Guaranteed Plant Availability 
in % 
  
c) Expected CUF in %   
d) Generation guarantee 
expectations 
  
 
 
6) Please indicate your preferred payment security (Tick as applicable) 
 
➢ Letter of Credit (LC) 
 
➢ Escrow mechanism 
 
➢ Corporate guarantee 
 
➢ Other:----- 
 
7) Please provide suggestions on: 
a) Metering arrangement 
 
 
b) Billing frequency 
 
 
c) Treatment of grid outage/curtailment 
 
 
 
 
d) In case NML surrenders power demand on any  
20 | Page 
 
day due to reasons beyond its control (like 
Snag in Transmission line, Strike in Mine area, 
Force Majeure conditions etc) 
 
e) Penalties mechanism in for any breakdown in 
Solar plant on any day 
 
f) Penalties mechanism in case generation is not 
matching declared PR, CUF etc 
 
g) Any other suggestion  
 
8) Please indicate expected project execution and implementation timeline period in months after 
availability of all clearances 
 
For PBCMP- For TLCMP- 
 
9) Please indicate major O&M considerations for a solar project located in mining areas. (You may 
add more rows) 
 
Sl. No. PBCMP TLCMP 
1.   
2.    
3.    
4.    
5.    
 
 
10) What is your preferred PPA tenure (in years)? 
 
For PBCMP- For TLCMP- 
 
 
11) Qualifying Requirements/PQC for both PBCMP and TLCMP based on the technical 
specifications specified in this notice for EOI 
 
 For PBCMP For TLCMP 
1. Minimum Technical Qualification   
 
 
2. Minimum Financial Qualification 
 
  
3. Should Consortium  be allowed? 
(Yes/No) 
  
4. Clauses that may discourage 
participation 
  
5. Any other specific 
recommendations 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 | Page 
 
12) Innovation and Value addition 
 
a) Recommendation for Tracker/fixed Tilt   
b) Usage of Mono-PERC/ TOPcon/HJT 
Modules 
  
c) Robotics cleaning requirement   
d) Drone Inspection   
e) BESS integration   
f) Other Innovation   
 
 
13) What should be the preferred mode of tendering? (Please tick) 
 
Open Tender  
Limited Tender  
 
 
14) Whether the applicant is onboarded on GeM Portal/GePNIC Portal? (Please tick)  
 
Yes  
No  
 
15) Prevailing taxation applicable 
 
16) In which mode will you prefer to participate in RFP? (Please tick) (In case of co-developer mode, 
what should be the share of NML?) 
 
100% Developer 
Mode 
 
Co-developer  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 | Page 
 
(Annexure-2) 
 
 
Developer Organization Profile 
 
1) Name of the Company: 
 
2) Legal Status of the Company: 
 
3) Details of Directors / Proprietor / Partners 
 
4) Brief description of the Company including details of its business groups/subsidiaries/ 
affiliates/its consortium: 
 
5) Date of Incorporation: 
 
6) Date of Commencement of Business: 
 
7) Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
 
3) Installed Solar capacity (MW) 
 
4) RESCO experience (In Solar or any other business) 
 
5) Any experience of Solar Project in Mine Area 
 
6) Turnover in the last 3 Financial Years 
 
7) Net Worth as on last date of the preceding Financial Year 
 
8) Paid up share capital as on last date of the preceding Financial Year 
 
Documents to be enclosed: 
 
a) Technical Credentials  – All Relevant Work Order/LOA/Completion certificate or any 
certificate issues by the users Copies of Customer Certificates (if any), Engineering 
strengths, collaborations/tie -ups with manufacturers (if applicable /if available ), quality 
accreditations, etc. 
b) Financial Credentials – Copies of Audited Financial statements (Annual Reports) for 
last 3 Financial Years. 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                        Annexure-3 
BRIEF WRITE UP ON THE TECHNO COMMERCIAL PROPOSAL AND THE EXPECTED 
COMMERCIAL TERMS FOR SOURCING 
(The applicant is required to indicate the terms and conditions, pricing philosophy which are 
desired in order to enter into long term strategic sourcing agreements) 
 
 
A) Brief write up on the Price Evaluation Philosophy 
(Additional Details may be enclosed) 
 
 
 
 
B) Inputs on the expectations from NML regarding Payment Terms and 
Conditions, Insurance Requirements, Delivery Plan, Price Validity etc. 
(All commercial inputs to be provided) 
 
 
 
C) Any other inputs which is required for the purpose of long term sourcing may please 
be provided 
24 | P a g e  
 
Annexure-4 
BRIEF WRITE UP ON THE CONTRACTUAL PPA FORMAT 
[OPTIONAL] 
(The applicant is required to furnish their proposal to enter into a PPA/MOU contract 
arrangement with NML on long term basis.) 
The applicant shall include all the detailed modalities which are required for entering into a 
PPA/MOU with NML on long term basis. As a part of the write -up, applicants to include the 
design criteria, technology requirements, sourcing inputs, quality arrangements, commercial 
and business arrangements etc. 
The detailed techno-commercial inputs may be furnished along with this EOI. 