NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
Vendor Enlistment Cell, USSC, RAIPUR 
Section-I 
 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
FOR 
 
Rate Contract for PAN NTPC Transportation for Year 2026-2028 
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC–VDC/9900330326 
 
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis  
(Envelope-I: Techno-commercial Bid & Envelope -II: Price Bid) ” from eligible bidders for 
aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of “Rate Contract for PAN NTPC Transportation for Year - 
2026-2028”. 
NTPC intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal  
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category Services* 
Source of IFB/NIT Vendor Enlistment Cell, Raipur 
NIT Date  
As per details at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
Document sale Commencement Date 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Cost of Bidding Documents / Tender Fee  
(Online only) 
Not Applicable  
Bid Security / EMD INR 20,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakh 
only) 
Benefit to MSME Applicable. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of 
bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
Contract Period 24 Months 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity Pact Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre -Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on 
e-tender portal”. 
 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e -tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
only. 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall submit “Techno -Commercial 
Proposal” and “Price Proposal” online (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app), within the bid 
submission date and time as mentioned above. Only Techno -Commercial proposals will be 
opened on the date and time mentioned above. 
 
Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied with Bid Security for an amount (as mentioned at Clause 3.0 
above) and Integrity Pact (to be accepted through GTE). Integrity Pact shall be submitted as 
per instruction mentioned in ITB/SCC. 
"ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY IN A SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE (ONLY IN CASE WHERE BID SECURITY IS SUBMITTED 
THROUGH BG) SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON -
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED. IN CASE, THE BID SECURITY IS 
SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT 
THE PROOF OF E -PAYMENT OF BID SECURITY EITHER IN SEPARATE SEALED 
ENVELOPE OR IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL.” 
Any bid without Bid Security (through online payment  or BG /Surety Bond or 
applicable exemption ) shall be rejected by Employer as being non -responsive and 
shall not be opened. 
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS  
 
 
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: 
 
5.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
5.1.1  The bidder must be registered common carrier as per Carriage by Road Rules 2011 
of Central Government of India (The bidder has to submit an affidavit to the effect 
that their registration as common carrier is not suspended, revoked/ cancelled by the 
registering authority as on date of submission of bid as per provision of sub -section 
(2) of section 5 of the “The carriage by Road Act-2007.”) 
 
5.1.2    The bidder should be a recommended transporter of Indian Banks’ Association. 
 
5.1.3 The bidder must have at least one office/ Branch/Godown at one of the loc ations 
falling under each of minimum 12 Regions out of Total 23 Regions (Total listed in 
Table A). Details of 23 Regions and its locations are mentioned in TABLE‐A.  
 
The Office/Branch/Godown falling within 50 KMs from a location listed under the 
Regions as per Table ‐A will be considered for the purpose of compliance to above 
requirement. For this purpose the distance shall be taken from Head Post 
Office/Railway Station/Interstate Bus Stand (in that order e.g. if HPO is not available 
then distance to be tak en from Railway station, if both HPO and Railway station not 
there then from Interstate Bus Stand) in case of Metro Cities. 
In case of NTPC stations/BHEL sites/Ports distance shall be taken from any point 
marked inside premises. Distance mentioned above shall be shortest road distance 
calculated using google maps. 
 
5.1.4 The bidder should have executed transport service contract(s) of at -least Rs 4. 68 
crores on cumulative basis  (In 1 or more than 1 contract(s) each having minimum 
executed value of Rs 50 lak hs, executed as an authorized transporter to Govt. 
/Public sector Undertaking/ Private sector companies/ Institutions) during continuous 
period of  12 month within preceding 7 (seven) years from the date of 
techno‐commercial bid opening.  
 
Notes for Technical Criteria:  
 
1. The word "executed" as mentioned above means the bidder should have 
achieved the criteria specified as above even if the total contract has started 
earlier and/or not completed /closed. 
 
2. In case, order(s) is/are under execution, the value of works executed till the date 
of opening of techno -commercial bid as certified by the client shall be 
considered. 
 
5.2  Financial criteria: 
 
5.2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder, in the preceding three (3) financial years 
as on date of Techno -Commercial bid opening, should not be less than INR 5.85 
crores. (Rupees Five crore and eighty-five lacs only).  
5.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the financial criteria , stipulated above on its own, 
its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last 
day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid -up 
share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be 
required to furnish along with its Techno -Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking 
from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, 
as per the format enclosed in the Bid Documents, pledging unconditional & 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case 
of award. 
5.2.3 Net worth of the Bidder should not be less than 100% (hundred percent) of its 
paid-up share capital  as on the last day of the preceding financial year reckoned 
from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or 
Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Companies , wherever 
applicable. In such a case, however the Net worth of the Bidder and its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding 
Companies, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not be less than 75% of 
their respective paid-up share capitals.  
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% 
(Seventy-five percent) of the respective paid -up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are 
individual paid up share capitals. 
5.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -
alone entity basis , the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along 
with copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company. 
 
ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated 
financial statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of 
the Holding Company. 
5.2.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno -
commercial bid opening are not available , the financial results certified by a 
practicing Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is 
not able to submit the certificate from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its 
financial parameters, the audited results for the three (03) consecutive financial 
years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a certificate would be required from CEO/CFO as per 
the format enclosed in the bidding document stating that the financial results of the 
company are under audit as on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening and the 
certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying financial parameters is 
not available. 
Notes for 5.2: 
i)Net worth means  the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserve means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but 
does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss 
account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, 
shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
ii)Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover figures. 
iii)“Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India. 
 
 
6.0 Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant 
of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements 
(QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the 
Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI). 
 
7.0 Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the 
credentials/capabilities/capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators / associates/ subsidiaries / 
group companies to perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such 
assessment in the overall interest of the Employer. 
 
The physical or any mode of assessment/verifications by Employer shall include but not be 
limited to the assessment/ verifications of  office/ facilities/ banker's/ submitted reference 
works in lieu of credentials. A negative determination of such assessment of 
credentials/capacity/capabilities may result in rejection of the bid.  
 
8.0 The reference works whose details have been declared in their bid shall only be considered 
to ascertain the bidder’s compliance  to the specified qualifying Requirement (QR). The 
Employer at its discretion may seek any clarification and/or documentary  evidence only for 
the reference works as mentioned above.  However, no change or substitution of  the 
reference works by new/additional plant for conforming to the specified qualifying 
Requirement shall be sought, offered or permitted”. 
 
9.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its 
subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
10.0 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including  bidder  from  India) having specified Transfer of  Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
11.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for 
Bids/NIT without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
12.0 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered 
to be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the 
presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
13.0 The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The Bidder would be required to register on the website.  
First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Users whose email address 
has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first time users not allotted any 
vendor code by NTPC, should send a copy of the registration details to the e -mail address 
specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following details at least three 
working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank  
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
14.0 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
15.0 Address for communication: 
 
DGM,VDC 
NTPC Limited, Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Vendor Enlistment Cell, CPG-1 Raipur 
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515323 
Email: bharatprasad@ntpc.co.in/suparnamukhopadhyay@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
16.0 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in  