NTPC Limited 
Project – Great Nicobar Island, India 
Package Name – Gas Engine Power Project (108 MW ±5 MW) EPC Package 
 BIDDING DOCUMENT NO.:CS-6401-001A-2 
 Tender Id. No.: 2026_NTPC_110672 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
“Salient Technical Features of the equipment/systems/services covered in the Bidding Document 
are mentioned below. These Salient Technical Features are mentioned only to facilitate the 
prospective bidders to prima-facie understand the requirements under the tender and shall not 
in any way limit or alter the scope of work and technical features/specification of equipment/ 
systems/ services covered in the Bidding Documents. Detailed provisions in regard of scope of 
work and technical features/ specification o f equipment/ systems/ services, contained in the 
Bidding Documents shall be final and binding. ”  
Brief Scope of Work 
The scope of the proposal for design, Engineering, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning 
works for Great Nicobar Island Engine based Gas Power Project (108 ±5 MW) shall be on the basis 
of a single point responsibility for complete EPC package including civil, covering the following 
activities and services in respect of all the equipment specified and covered under the 
specifications. 
1. Engines (compatible to fire 20 to 25% Hydrogen by volume along with RLNG) 
2. Generator with excitation system 
3. Engine exhaust system including chimney & continuous emission monitoring system. 
4. NOx Control system (if required) to maintain Nox level less than 80ppm (dry volume basis 
corresponding to 15% excess oxygen in Engine exhaust) 
5. Engine lube oil system 
6. All galleries, walkways and platforms 
7.  Thermal Insulation 
8. Intake gas system 
9. Intake air system/ Starting air system 
10. Engine cooling water system including radiator. 
11. Control System 
12. Erection and Commissioning of complete plant 
13.  Arrangement to make gas available at required parameters as per engine requirement 
14. Raw Water Pumps with drive near Reservoir (Inside Plant Boundary) and associated water 
system. 
15. Compressed air system for Instrument air & Service air. 
16. Fire detection & Protection system 
17. Fire Extinguisher & Fire Tenders 
18. Air Conditioning System 
19. Ventilation System 
20. Elevator, crane, hoist & Forklift. 
21. Complete Control & instrumentation system with all required measuring, controlling & 
monitoring Instruments. 
22. Generator & Auxiliary system. 
23. Power Transformers, Auxiliary Transformer & their maintenance testing & monitoring 
equipment. 
24. 132/33 KV Indoor GIS 
25. MV Switchgear, LV Switchgear & LV Busduct 
26. DC System – Battery & battery Charger. 
27. HT power cable/ LT Power & Control cables. 
28. Station Lighting & DG Sets. 
29. Rooftop Solar. 
30. Cabling, Earthing, lighting protection 
31. Training of Employer’s Personnel 
32. Basic Engineering of the plant including preparation of plant design manuals for the power 
project. 
33. Detailed design of all the equipment and system(s) including civil, structural steel works 
included in bidder's scope for the Project. 
34. Providing engineering drawings, equipment sizing & performance data, instruction manuals, 
as built drawings, O&M manuals and other information for Employer's approval. 
35. Compliance with statutory requirements and obtaining clearances from statutory authorities, 
wherever required. 
36. Complete manufacturing including shop testing/type testing. 
37. Complete civil, structural and Architectural works, including topographical survey, providing 
construction offices, field laboratory, construction equipment, construction power and 
construction water. 
38. Packing and transportation from the manufacturer's work to the site including customs 
clearance/port clearance, port charges, if any shall be in Bidders scope. Any infrastructure 
required for transportation of engines/structure/power plant materials till p roject location 
(temporary jetty/ connecting road) shall be also in Bidder’s scope. 
39. Receipt, storage, preservation and conservation of equipment at the site. 
40. Fabrication, pre-assembly, if any, erection, testing and putting into satisfactory operation all 
the equipment including successful completion of facilities. 
41. Reliability tests and owner acceptance including the tests for performance demonstration 
after successful completion of facilities. 
42. Furnishing of spares on FOR (Freight on Road) site basis. 
43. Reconciliation with customs authorities, in case of foreign bidders. 
44. Satisfactory conclusion of the Contract. 
45. Insurance and other requirements for the complete Power plant package in accordance with 
the provisions of general conditions of contract of the bidding document. 
46. One year supervision during operation and maintenance with deputation of 1 operation and 1 
maintenance expert post successful completion of initial/trial operations & Performance 
guarantee tests including Demonstration tests (whichever occurs later). 
47. Execution and completion of civil, structural, architectural, and electrical works for the 
enabling township. 
The Power plant is expected to run for its life on RLNG as fuel for the project  along with its 
compatibility to fire 20 to 25% Hydrogen by volume. 
 