 
Page 1 of 46 
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
October 2026 to October 2027 
EOI No. AM-NTPC Kanti/Dry Fly Ash/MSE-Local/EoI/ 2026               Date: 07.08.2026 
Name of Work: - 
Fly Ash supply to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) and Local users engaged in ash- based 
products manufacturing, on concessional rates, as is where is’ basis from NTPC K a n t i  
Thermal Power Plant  Muzaffarpur Bihar. Lifting and Transportation of the ash s hall be the 
responsibility of the interested Ash Users. 
NTPC Limited invites Expression of Interest (EoI) from interested Micro and Small Enterprises 
(MSEs) / Local users for lifting Dry Fly Ash from NTPC K a n t i  Thermal Power Plant  
Muzaffarpur Bihar for One Year duration. Dry Fly Ash Quantity offered is mentioned in ‘General 
Information’ for this EoI along with Contact Details and e-mail addresses. 
How to Apply 
Interested Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) / local users are required to submit their response 
to the EOI in the prescribed formats enclosed as Part 3: Format for Submission of Response to 
EOI and Part 4: Annexures and Formats.  
The soft copy of the EOI response must be submitted via email on or before 28.08.2026, 17:30 
Hrs. In addition, the hard copy , along with all supporting documents, must be submitted in a 
sealed envelope clearly superscribed with the EOI Reference Number and Subject. The sealed 
envelope should reach the following address on or before 28.08.2026, 17:30 Hrs. 
HOD (C&M) 
Tender Box at Room No. 46/47, ADM building, NTPC Kanti,   
P.O. Kanti Thermal, Dist.- Muzaffarpur, Bihar, Pin – 843130 
 
Mail Id for submission of documents in soft form : mtpsaud@gmail.com 
 
Contact Details : 
Mobile No: 9748555051/ 7368804580, Land Line : 09264296600 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
for 
Fly Ash supply to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE’s) and Local Users 
(situated within 100 Kms radial distance from station) 
engaged in ash-based products manufacturing 
 
Page 2 of 46 
 
 
 
General information’ and ‘Standard format for application’ for Expression of Interest have 
been uploaded on https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ 
Registered Office: NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New 
Delhi -110003. www.ntpc.co.in, CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966 
Leading the Power Sector 
 
Page 3 of 46 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
for 
Fly Ash supply to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) / Local Users 
(situated within 100 Kms radial distance from station) engaged in ash-
based products manufacturing as per Para D(4) Inserted to The MoEF&CC 
Notification on Ash Utilization from Coal or Lignite Thermal Power Plants 
Dated 31.12.2021 Amended on 01.01.2024, on concessional rates, ‘as is 
  where is’ basis, from NTPC Kanti. 
 
 
Ref No. EOI No. AM-NTPC Kanti/Dry Fly Ash/MSE-Local/EoI/ 2026 Date: 07.08.2026 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information for EoI. 
 
ii. Part 2: Terms & Conditions of EoI. 
 
iii. Part 3: Format for Submission of Response to EoI. 
 
iv. Part 4: Annexures and Formats. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 46 
 
 
 
Part 1: General Information for EoI 
 
1. General Details about NTPC Kanti: 
NTPC Kanti, located at Muzaffarpur Bihar having a total installed capacity of 390 MW, is 
engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant 
MOEF&CC Gazette Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, 
NTPC Kanti has reserved a certain percentage of issuable quantity of fly ash separately 
for supply to micro and small enterprises (MSEs) and Local Users engaged in ash-based 
product manufacturing namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash 
aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels [as per para D(4) inserted to the 
MoEF&CC Notification on ash utilization from coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 
31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024] at concessional rates. The supply of fly ash shall be 
made on “as is where is” basis, with transportation cost being borne by the Applicants. 
To facilitate this, NTPC Kanti invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 01 
(One) year, from its 390 MW Stage-II units . Further details regarding this Expression of 
Interest (EoI) are as follows: 
 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
NTPC Kanti invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Applicants, for 
utilization of dry fly ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the 
prescribed formats (Part-3 & Part-4). 
Total quantity of fly ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per 
details given hereunder - 
 
Power Stations / Location Total Quantity 
offered for EoI 
Concessional 
Rates 
Period of 
Supply 
NTPC Kanti (Muzaffarpur Thermal Power Station), 
Post Office: Kanti Thermal, District Muzaffarpur, 
Bihar,  PIN 843130 
 
200000 MT INR 100 / 
MT 
01 Year (October 
2026 to October 
2027) 
 
 
2. Eligibility for EoI Participation: 
All applicants, fulfilling the following criteria, are eligible to participate in the EOI process: 
a. The applicant must have a valid Udyam Registration Certificate 
MSE registered under Trader(s) and / or Service provider(s) shall not be allowed to 
participate under this EOI. 
(As per MSME Notification S.O. 2119 (E) dated 26th June 2020, from 1st June 2022, 
Udyam registration shall be the ONLY valid MSME Registration Document. Except 
 
Page 5 of 46 
 
 
 
 
Udyam Registration Certificate no other registration documents will be considered 
for MSEs exemption and benefits for participation, until GOI extends the validity of 
other MSEs registration certificate.) 
Or 
The applicant must be Local Users situated within the 100 km radius of the plant 
b. The applicant must be a manufacturer, engaged in making ash-based products like 
bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, 
pipes, boards, panels as mentioned in the para D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC 
Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 
31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024. 
In order to meet the above requirement, applicant is required to submit relevant 
documents like Consent to Operate Order from CPCB or SPCB / Registration 
certificate from the concerned state industries / revenue / etc. / License to Work as 
a Factory / Pollution Clearance Certificate / Documentary evidence for the 
production capacity of the plant or any other relevant documents for establishing 
that the applicant is manufacturer of one or more aforesaid ash-based products 
c. The applicant who submits an Undertaking as per prescribed format (Annexure – 
01), executed on non-judicial Stamp Paper, duly Notarized by a notary public), duly 
signed by authorized signatory of the applicant, inter- alia confirming the following: 
i. The applicant is a micro and small enterprise or a local ash user [within 100 km 
of NTPC Kanti], engaged in manufacturing ash-based products [as mentioned 
in the para-D (4) inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from 
coal or lignite thermal power plants dated 31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024]. 
ii. The applicant shall utilize / ensure utilization of ash (bought under the subject 
EOI) under eco-friendly avenues as per extant MoEF&CC Notification. 
d. In compliance to serial number 2 (a) above, the successful applicants, during 
execution, shall be required to submit a Notarized Affidavit as per prescribed format 
(Annexure – 02), on half yearly basis regarding ‘actual utilization of already issued 
ash’. 
3. Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 3 - Format for Submission of 
Response to EoI” and “Part 4: Annexures and Formats”: 
a. Valid Udyam Registration Certificate under manufacturing category. 
(As per MSME Notification S.O. 2119 (E) dated 26th June 2020, from 1st June 2022, 
Udyam registration shall be the ONLY valid MSME Registration Document. Except 
Udyam Registration Certificate no other registration documents will be considered 
for MSEs exemption and benefits for applications, unless until GoI extend the validity 
of other MSEs registration certificate). 
or 
Self-declaration by Local Users situated within the 100 km radius of the plant, 
confirming that the ash will be utilized solely for ecofriendly purposes. Applicants 
must submit geotagged images of manufacturing location along with address proof 
and radial distance from NTPC Kanti. 
b. Relevant document(s) for establishing the applicant to be a manufacturer of one or 
more ash based product namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash 
aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as mentioned in the para 
D(4) inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite 
thermal power plants dated 31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024. 
 
Page 6 of 46 
 
 
 
 
c. Relevant Documents for establishing the applicant to be a manufacturer of one or 
more ash-based products as mentioned in the para D (4) inserted to the MoEF&CC 
Notification can be like: 
o Consent to Operate Order from CPCB / SPCB, if applicable 
o No Objection Certificate from State Pollution Control Board for establishing 
manufacturing Unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable. 
o Undertaking submitted to State Pollution Control Board for Establishing 
Manufacturing Unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable 
o Registration certificate from the concerned state industries / revenue 
departments / etc., as may be applicable. 
o License to Work as a Factory, as may be applicable. 
o Pollution Clearance Certificate, as may be applicable. 
o Prime Minister Employment Generation Program 'Loan Sanction' Letter for 
establishing a manufacturing unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable. 
o Bank Loan Sanction Letter mentioning the loan disbursement for establishing a 
manufacturing unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable. 
o Any other Government / Statutory document establishing the applicant as a 
manufacturing unit of ash-based products, as may be applicable. 
d. PAN CARD, as may be applicable 
e. GST Registration, as may be applicable. 
f. Company Registration, as may be applicable. 
g. Business details of the applicant / buyer / participant as per prescribed format (Part 
– 03) along with documentary proof as applicable. 
h. Undertaking as per prescribed format (Annexure – 01), executed on non-judicial 
Stamp Paper, duly Notarized by a notary public. 
i. Power of Attorney (PoA) in case of Joint Venture/Consortium- One of the partners 
shall be nominated as being in charge and shall be designated as leader; this 
authorization shall be evidenced by submitting, a power of attorney signed by legally 
authorized signatories of all the partners. 
j. Form of Acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy (Annexure – 04). 
k. Declaration on Debarment from Business Dealings Policy (Annexure – 05). 
Bids are liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. In 
case of shortfall in the submitted documents, NTPC at its sole discretion, may solicit the 
shortfall documents from the applicants. 
 
4. Allocation of Dry Fly Ash Quantity: The total quantity of Dry Fly Ash offered is 200,000 
MT, distributed as follows: 
 MSMEs: 160,000 MT 
       Local Users: 40,000 MT 
Allocation will be carried out based on the responses received against the EoI for MSME and 
local user separately as per allocated quantity, In case the total demand exceeds the offered 
quantity within a category (MSME or Local Users), allocation shall be made on a pro rata basis 
and on an “as is where is” basis. In case of lower response in EoI against the offered quantity in 
any category, the unallocated balance quantity shall be transferred to the other category.  
 
 
 
Page 7 of 46 
 
 
Daily allocation of fly ash shall be done as given below: 
a. All successful applicants shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their 
day-wise requested quantities for each month. Lifting Sequence and allocation shall 
be finalized by NTPC Kanti depending upon site conditions. 
b. All allocated applicants shall be expected to follow the above schedule and mobilize 
accordingly. 
c. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, 
allocate such quantity to other users. Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC) NTPC 
shall be final and binding in this regard. 
Dry fly ash shall be issued from the discharge chute of designated ash Silos / Other 
Suitable Locations as decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the NTPC Kanti, on ‘ as 
is where is’ basis. • However, collecting from NTPC`s issue of location and 
transportation, thereafter, will be in the scope of the applicant only 
 
5. Advance Payment: 
Allocated quantity of fly ash for the period shall be divided into monthly quantity and amount 
payable based on the quantity for one month is to be deposited in advance (along with all 
taxes and duties as applicable) through NTPC Customer Portal (in NTPC Account) for the 
quantity of fly ash to be lifted in next month. 
 
6. Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Applicant shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount 
along with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and 
Ash Allocation Process, at the rate of INR. 10/ MT (an amount equivalent to Ten (10) 
percent of value of concessional rate), subject to a minimum of INR 10,000 /-. This SD will 
be kept for ensuring commitment of the Successful Applicant(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. 
An amount at the rate of INR 10/MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited as per clause 43. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. 
This adjusted SD amount will be refunded within Ninety (90) days of end of the contract 
period or of lifting of entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
 
7. Affidavit for Utilization of Ash: 
The buyer shall submit affidavit on non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value, certifying 
the complete use of issued NTPC fly ash certifying the adherence to provisions identified 
vide extant MoEF & CC Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, 
in prescribed format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the NTPC Engineer-In-
Charge (format attached as Annexure – 02). 
 
8. Contact Persons: 
 
Name / Designation Mobile No. / e-Mail Address 
 Sh.Pradeep dhakare (Manager AHD) 7368804580 
Sh. Gautam Sharma (Deputy Manager, C&M) 9748555051 
 
Page 8 of 46 
 
 
 
Part 2: Terms and Conditions of EoI: 
DEFINITIONS 
 
9. In this EOI, following terms shall be interpreted as: 
 
a. “The Contract” shall mean the issuance of an award letter including EoI documents 
and amendment thereof which will constitute the formation of the Contract. 
b. “The Contract Value” means the consideration payable to NTPC Ltd under the 
contract for the full and proper performance of its contractual obligations. 
c. “Day” means calendar day. 
d. “Effective Date” means the date on which this contract becomes effective (i.e., issue 
date of LOA). 
e. “GCC” means General Conditions of contract contained in this document. 
f. “SCC” means Special Conditions of contract contained in this document. 
g. “The Buyer” (i.e., successful applicant or bidder or awardee) which expression shall 
unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to include its 
successors and permitted assigns. 
h. “Owner / Seller / Supplier” (i.e., NTPC Limited) which expression shall unless 
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to include its successors 
and permitted assigns. 
i. Awarded Quantity / Annual Contract Quantity / Annual Allocated Quantity is the 
quantity of Fly Ash as finalized by NTPC Kanti for award to a particular successful 
participant and shall be expressed in Metric Tonn [MT] for the period of sale. 
j. “Arbitration Act” means the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, as 
amended and modified from time to time, including any re-enactment thereof. 
k. Metric Tonne (MT) means 1,000 Kilograms. 
l. “Contract Term / Period” means duration of the contract. 
m. “Delivery Point” means the chutes of designated Silos i.e., Fly Ash Silos chutes at 
NTPC Kanti / Other Suitable Locations as decided by Engineer-In-Charge. 
n. “Engineer-In-Charge [EIC]” means the officer appointed in writing by NTPC Kanti to 
act as an engineer from time to time. 
o. “First Off take” means the date of first off take of Fly Ash, by the buyer from Delivery 
Point and in accordance with this Agreement. 
p. “Force Majeure” shall have the meaning ascribed to it under the relevant clause of 
this EOI document. 
q. “Law(s)” means applicable laws, rules, regulations, judgments, decrees, or other 
legislative measures having the force of law or issued by any government agency, 
instrumentality, body or legislature, National, State or local authority or a court of 
competent Jurisdiction. 
 
Page 9 of 46 
 
 
 
 
r. “Quarter” shall mean a period of 03 months and shall be calculated from the 
scheduled date of commencement of contract. 
s. “Party” means the owner or the applicant, as the case may be, and “Parties” means 
both of them. 
t. “Awarded Price / Prevailing Price” 
u. “Awarded Price” is the price mentioned in the Letter of Award. 
v. “Adjusted quantity” means final allocated quantity to the applicant after adjusting the 
quantity of Dry Fly Ash which NTPC Kanti could not provide to the applicant for lifting 
for any reason whatsoever, but not attributable to the applicant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 46 
 
 
 
 
10. Validity of Expression: 
The applicant shall keep the expression valid for a minimum period of one hundred twenty 
(120) days from the date of opening of the expression. In exceptional circumstances the 
owner may solicit the applicant’s consent for an extension of the expression validity period. 
When the validity period is extended by the applicant, the same shall be done without any 
modification to the expression proposal by the applicant. 
 
11. Owner’s Right to accept any Expression or to reject any or all Expression’s: 
Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, the owner (NTPC Kanti) reserves the right to 
accept or reject any expression, either in full or in part or to annul the EoI process and 
reject all expressions at any time prior to allocation of quantity without assigning any reason 
thereof. 
No contract shall be awarded to an applicant against whom a Debarment Order has been 
issued as per owner’s Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings. 
 
12. Owner’s Right to adjust the quantity during sale Period: 
The owner reserves the right to adjust the quantity at any point of time during the period of 
sale which NTPC Kanti could not provide to the applicant or lifting for any reason 
whatsoever, but not attributable to the applicant. 
 
13. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD): 
a. Within fifteen (15) days of the issue of award letter for allocation by the owner, 
successful applicants shall submit the Contract Performance Guarantee / Security 
Deposit for an amount equivalent to Ten (10) percent of value of allocated quantity, 
subject to a minimum of INR 10,000 /- in the form of e-Payment at NTPC’s Customer 
Payment Portal or through an unconditional and irrevocable Bank Guarantee. CPG 
/ SD submitted in the form of Bank Guarantee shall be valid for 90 days in addition 
to the period of the contract. 
b. Failure of the successful applicant to comply with the requirement of Submission of 
Contract Performance Guarantee / Security Deposit within the prescribed time shall 
constitute sufficient grounds for the annulment of the allocation order. In that event 
no damages or compensations shall be payable to the buyer. Further, such applicant 
/ buyer shall also be dealt as per the provisions of policy for Debarment from 
Business Dealings. 
c. For commencement of supplies, submission of acceptable CPG / SD is a 
precondition. 
d. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) shall be released 
within 90 (Ninety) days after successful completion of contract in all respects. 
 
14. Notice: 
Any notice, request, or consent sought pursuant to the EOI shall be in writing and shall be 
deemed to have been made when delivered in person to an authorized representative of 
the owner or applicant to whom the communication is addressed, or when sent by e-Mail, 
speed post, telex, telegram, or facsimile to such party i.e., the owner or the applicant. 
15. Understanding and Clarification of EoI Documents: 
 
Page 11 of 46 
 
 
 
 
a. The applicant is expected to carefully examine the EoI documents and fully satisfy 
himself as to all the conditions and matters, which may in any way affect the work or 
the cost thereof. If any applicant finds discrepancies or omissions in the EoI 
documents or is in doubt as to the true intent or meaning of any part thereof, he shall 
at once request in writing to the owner for an interpretation / clarification of the EoI 
documents. However, such a request must reach the owner seven days before the 
end date of submission against this EOI, otherwise, the request for clarification shall 
not be entertained. After receipt of such interpretation or clarifications, the applicant 
shall submit his offer but within the time and date as specified in the EOI. All such 
interpretation and clarification shall form a part of the EoI documents. 
b. Verbal clarifications and information given by the owner, or its employees or 
representatives, shall not be in any way binding on the owner. 
 
16. Award for Sale of Fly Ash: 
a. The owner will issue an Award letter (Model Award letter at Annexure – 03) of 
allocation for sale of Fly Ash in writing to the successful applicants. The successful 
applicant shall return a copy of the Letter of Award, duly signed and stamped, as a 
token of their acknowledgement. 
b. The applicant would be required to comply with all requirements of the notification of 
allocation without any extra cost to the owner, failing which his Contract Performance 
Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) may be forfeited. 
 
17. Uniform EoI Quantity Over the Allocation Period: 
The allocated quantity shall be considered uniform per month after commencement of first 
off take for the remaining supply period. 
 
18. ADHERENCE TO FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY: 
The buyer along with its associate / collaborators / subagencies/ sub-vendors / consultants 
/ service providers shall strictly adhere to the Fraud Prevention Policy of owner displayed 
on its website http://www.ntpctender.com The buyer shall immediately apprise the owner 
about any fraud or suspected fraud as soon as it comes to their notice. 
A certificate to this effect shall be furnished by the applicant along with his application 
“Acceptance of Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC” [Annexure – 04]. 
If in terms of above policy if it is established that the applicant / his representatives have 
committed any fraud while competing for this contract, then the owner shall be entitled to 
disqualify the buyer(s) from the EoI process. In addition to the above, if the applicant has 
committed a fraud such as to put his reliability or credibility into question, the owner shall 
be entitled to exclude including blacklist and put the applicant on holiday for any future 
tenders / contracts award process. 
Submission of an application against this EOI shall be considered as the acceptance of 
Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
DECLARATION ON DEBARMENT FROM BUSINESS DEALINGS POLICY 
The owner has in place a Policy for Debarment from Business dealings displayed on the 
website www.ntpc.co.in / www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in. Business dealings may be withheld or 
banned with the applicant / buyer on account of any of the grounds and following the 
procedures as detailed in the said Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings. 
 
Page 12 of 46 
 
 
 
 
A declaration to this effect shall be furnished by the applicant along with his application 
“Declaration on Debarment from Business Dealings Policy” [Annexure – 05]. 
The version of Policy for Debarment from Business Dealings presently followed by NTPC 
is Rev-4. 
Submission of an application against this EOI shall be considered as the acceptance of 
Debarment from Business Dealings Policy of NTPC. 
 
DECLARATION ON NTPC ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION (ABAC) POLICY 
The Owner has in place a policy for ‘Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC)’ as displayed 
on its website https://ntpc.co.in/sustainability/policies/governance. 
Submission of an application against this EOI deems the acceptance to ‘Anti-Bribery and 
Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy of NTPC’. 
 
Any kind of deposit in NTPC account w.r.t. Sale Price / Contract Performance 
Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) shall be through NTPC Customers Payment 
Receipt Portal only. 
 
Page 13 of 46 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
 
19. Acquaintances of local conditions: 
It will be imperative for the applicant to fully inform himself of all local conditions, legal 
requirements and factors which shall have any effect on the execution of the agreement / 
sale work covered under these documents and specifications. 
20. Confidentiality: 
a. Information relating to the examination, clarification, evaluation, and comparison of 
applications against the EOI, and recommendations for allocation shall not be 
disclosed to the applicants or any other person not officially concerned with such 
process. 
b. Any effort by the applicant to influence the owner in the owner’s applications 
evaluation, application comparison, or allocation decisions may result in the rejection 
of the applicant’s expression. 
c. From the time of EOI opening Date to the time of allocation, if any applicant wishes 
to contact the supplier on any matter related to its application / expression, it should 
do so in writing. 
 
21. Examination of Expressions and Determination of Responsiveness: 
a. The owner will examine the applications / expressions against the EOI to determine 
whether they are complete, whether any computational errors have been made, 
whether the documents have been properly signed, and whether the application / 
expression are generally in order. 
b. The owner may waive any minor informality, nonconformity, or irregularity in a 
application / expression that does not constitute a material deviation, provided such 
waiver does not prejudice or affect the relative ranking of any applicant. 
22. Settlement of Disputes: 
a. Mutual Consultation: 
If any dispute of any kind whatsoever shall arise between the Owner and the Buyer 
in connection with or arising out of the Contract, including without prejudice to the 
generality of the foregoing, any question regarding its existence, validity or 
termination, or the execution of the Facilities, whether during the progress of the 
Facilities or after their completion and whether before or after the termination, 
abandonment or breach of the Contract, the parties shall seek to resolve any such 
dispute or difference by mutual consultation. 
On reference of such a dispute by either party, the Owner shall invite the Buyer for 
mutual consultation, within seven (07) working days of such reference. 
Without admitting the Owner liability, the Owner may obtain, within 30 days of such 
reference of the dispute, further details from the Buyer and examine it relating to the 
dispute. Such examination (if any) by the Owner shall not be construed as or imply 
acceptance of the claim or liability or accuracy or completeness of the details set 
forth in such request or reference. The Owner may hold discussions with Buyer with 
an effort to resolve the dispute. 
 
Page 14 of 46 
 
 
 
 
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation within 
a period of forty-five (45) days from the date of receipt of reference of such dispute 
or within such extended period as the parties shall agree in writing, then the dispute 
may be settled through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/ or Mediation 
through Independent External Monitors (if applicable) and/or through Conciliation 
and/or Arbitration (if applicable) / other remedies available under the applicable laws. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the 
parties shall keep confidential all matters relating to the Mutual consultation 
proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to any agreement reached during 
Mutual consultation, except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of 
implementation and enforcement. 
The parties shall not rely on or treat as evidence in Independent Engineer / 
Mediation/ Conciliation / and in any way Arbitral or Judicial proceedings, whether or 
not such proceedings relate to the dispute that is the subject of the Mutual 
consultation proceedings: 
i. views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a possible 
settlement of the dispute; 
ii. admissions made by the other party in the course of the mutual consultation 
proceedings; 
iii. the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to accept a proposal 
for mutual settlement. 
b. Resolution of Dispute through Independent Engineer (IE) 
Not Applicable 
c. Mediation through Independent External Monitors (IEMs) 
Not Applicable 
d. Resolution of Dispute through Conciliation 
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation and 
through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or through Mediation (if 
applicable) within a period as specified at clause 22 (a), 22 (b) and 22 (c) above, the 
dispute if the parties agree, may be referred to Conciliation. 
 For cases where the disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is upto INR 25 Cr. (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation shall 
be referred to Expert Settlement Council (ESC), constituted by the Owner 
 For cases where the disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is 
higher) is above INR 25 Cr. (excluding interest), the matter for conciliation shall 
be referred to Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE), 
constituted by Ministry of Power (MoP) 
If the claim / Counter-claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange 
rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the 
claim in Indian Rupee. 
The Conciliation process shall be conducted as per Part III of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996. 
 
Page 15 of 46 
 
 
 
 
i. Resolution of Dispute through Expert Settlement Council (ESC), constituted by 
the Owner {For cases with Disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, 
whichever is higher) upto INR 25 Crore excl. interest} 
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual 
consultation and through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or 
through Mediation (if applicable) within a period specified at Clause 22.1, 
22.2 and 22.3 above, the dispute, if the parties agree, may be referred to 
Conciliation through Expert Settlement Council (ESC), in cases where the 
Disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is higher) is upto INR 25 
crore (excluding interest). 
1. Invitation for Conciliation through ESC: 
a. A party shall notify the other party in writing about such a dispute 
it wishes to refer for Conciliation through ESC within a period of 
15 days from the date of failure to resolve the dispute through 
Mutual Consultation and Independent Engineer (if applicable) 
and/or through Mediation (if applicable) within a period as 
specified at clause 22 (a), 22 (b) and 22 (c) above. Such Invitation 
for Conciliation shall contain sufficient information as to the dispute to 
enable the other party to be fully informed as to the nature of the 
dispute, amount of the monetary claim, if any, and apparent cause of 
action. 
b. Upon acceptance of the invitation to conciliate, the other party 
shall submit its counter claim, if any, within a period of 15 days 
from the date of the invitation to conciliate. If the other party 
rejects the invitation or Disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, 
whichever is higher) exceeds INR 25 crore (excluding Interest), 
there will be no Conciliation proceedings through ESC. 
There shall be no Conciliation where disputed amount (Claim/ 
Counter claim, whichever is higher excl. interest) is only up to INR 5 
lakhs 
c. If the party initiating Conciliation does not receive a reply within 
fifteen (15) days from the date on which it sends the invitation, 
or within such other period of time as specified in the invitation, 
it shall treat this as a rejection of the invitation to conciliate from 
the other party 
2. Conciliation through ESC: 
a. Where Invitation for Conciliation has been furnished under GCC 
sub clause 22 (d)(i)(1), the parties shall attempt to settle such 
dispute through Expert Settlement Council (ESC) which shall be 
constituted by CMD/Chairman of the Owner. 
 
Page 16 of 46 
 
 
 
 
b. ESC will be formed from experts comprising three members 
from the panel of Conciliators maintained by the Owner. 
However, there will be single member ESC for disputes involving 
disputed amount (Claim / Counter claim, whichever is higher 
excl. interest) is up to INR 1 crore. 
CMD / Chairman of the Owner shall have the 
authority to reconstitute the ESC to fill any vacancy. 
c. The ESC shall be amongst Civil Servants of Govt. of India retired 
from the level of Joint Secretary and above, Retired Judges, 
Officers retired from the level of Executive Director and above of 
any Maharatna / Navratna company in India, other than NTPC 
Ltd, Retired Independent Directors who have served on the 
Board of any Maharatna / Navratna company in India, other than 
NTPC Ltd 
3. Proceedings before ESC: 
a. The claimant shall submit its Statement of Claims (SOC) along 
with relevant documents to ESC members, and to the party(s) 
indicated in the appointment letter within 15 days of 
appointment of ESC. The respondent shall file its 
reply/Statement of Defence (SOD) and counter claim (if any) 
within 15 days of the receipt of the Statement of claims. Each 
party shall send a copy of such Statement along with relevant 
documents to the other party. 
Parties may file their rejoinder/additional documents, 
if any in support of their Claim / Counterclaim within 
next 7 days. No documents shall be allowed 
thereafter, except with the permission of ESC 
b. The parties shall file their claim and counterclaim in the following 
format: 
i. Chronology of the dispute 
ii. Brief of the contract 
iii. Brief history of the dispute 
iv. Issues 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Description of 
Claims / Counter 
claims 
Amount (in 
foreign currency 
/ INR) 
Relevant 
Contract 
Clause 
    
    
v. Details of Claim(s) / Counter Claim(s) 
vi. Basis / Ground of claim(s) / counter claim(s) (along 
with relevant clause of contract 
Note: Statement of claims shall be restricted to a 
maximum limit of 20 pages. 
 
Page 17 of 46 
 
 
 
 
c. In case of 3 members ESC, 2 members will constitute a valid 
quorum and the meeting can take place to proceed in the matter 
after seeking consent from the member who is not available. 
However, ESC recommendations will be signed by all the 
members. 
If required, meetings can be conducted through video 
conferencing/other digital means subject to the 
agreement between the parties and the ESC. 
d. The parties shall be represented by their in house employees. 
No party shall be allowed to bring any advocate or outside 
consultant / advisor / agent to contest on their behalf. Ex-officers 
of Owner’s Organization who have handled the subject matter in 
any capacity shall not be allowed to attend and present the case 
before ESC on behalf of Buyer. However, ex-employees of 
parties may represent their respective organizations. Parties 
shall not claim any interest on claims / counter-claims from the 
date of notice invoking Conciliation till execution of settlement 
agreement, if so arrived. In case, parties are unable to reach a 
settlement, no interest shall be claimed by either party for the 
period from the date of notice invoking Conciliation till the date 
of ESC recommendations and 30 days thereafter in any further 
proceeding. 
e. ESC will conclude its proceedings in maximum 5 meetings and 
give its recommendations within 90 days from the date of 
reference to ESC. ESC will give its recommendations to both the 
parties recommending possible terms of settlement. CMD / 
Chairman of the Owner may extend the time/number of 
meetings, in exceptional cases, if ESC requests for the same with 
sufficient reasons and as agreed by the parties. 
f. Depending upon the location of ESC members and the parties, 
the venue of the ESC meeting shall be either Delhi / Mumbai / 
Kolkata / Chennai or any other city whichever is most economical 
from the point of view of travel and stay etc. All the expenditure 
incurred in ESC proceedings shall be shared by the parties in 
equal proportion 
4. Fees and Facilities to the Members of the ESC 
 
Sl .No. Fees / Facility Entitlement 
1 Fees 
Lumpsum fee of INR 2,50,000 per 
conciliator irrespective of the no. of 
meetings * 
2 Secretarial expenses INR 10,000 /- lump sum (to 1 member 
only). 
 
Page 18 of 46 
 
 
 
 
3 Transportation in the city of 
the meeting 
Car as per entitlement or INR 2,000 /- per 
day 
4 Venue for meeting OWNER’S conference rooms 
Facilities to be provided to the out-stationed member 
 
 
5 
 
 
Travel from the city of 
residence to the city of 
meeting 
As per entitlement of Independent 
Directors. Executive class air tickets / first 
class AC train tickets/ Luxury car/ 
reimbursement of actual fare. However, 
entitlement of air travel by Business class 
shall be subject to austerity measures, if 
any, ordered by Govt of India. 
 
6 
Transport to and fro airport 
/ railway station in the city 
of residence 
 
Car as per entitlement or INR 3,000 /- 
7 Stay  for out stationed 
members 
As per entitlement of Independent 
Directors. 
8 Transport in the city of 
meeting 
Car as per entitlement or INR 2,000 /- per 
day 
* Due to unavoidable circumstances, if there is requirement of 
more than 5 meeting to conclude the Conciliation 
proceedings, the same may be done at the discretion of ESC 
within the capping of fee of INR 2.5 Lakhs per conciliator. 
However, logistic arrangements, including travel, etc. may be 
provided as per the extant Policy for such additional sittings. 
Aforesaid fees is subject to revision by Owner from time to time 
and subject to government guidelines on austerity measures, if 
any. All the expenditure incurred in the ESC proceedings shall be 
shared by the parties in equal proportions. The Parties shall 
maintain the account of expenditure and present to the other for 
the purpose of sharing on conclusion of the ESC proceedings. 
5. If recommendations/ report of ESC is acceptable to both the parties, a 
Settlement Agreement under Section 73 of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996 will be signed to the extent agreed by the parties 
within 15 days of acceptance by the parties and same shall be 
authenticated by all the ESC members. 
Parties are free to terminate Conciliation proceedings at any 
stage as provided under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996. 
6. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being 
in force, the Conciliator and the parties shall keep confidential all 
matters relating to the Conciliation proceedings. Confidentiality shall 
extend also to the settlement agreement, except where its disclosure 
is necessary for purposes of implementation and enforcement. 
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral 
or judicial proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate to 
the dispute that is the subject of the Conciliation proceedings, — 
a. views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in 
respect of a possible settlement of the dispute; 
 
Page 19 of 46 
 
 
 
 
b. admissions made by the other party in the course of the 
Conciliation proceedings; 
c. proposals made by the Conciliator; and 
d. the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to 
accept a proposal for settlement made by the Conciliator. 
ii. Resolution of Dispute through Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts 
(CCIE), constituted by Ministry of Power (MoP) {For cases with Disputed 
amount (Claim/ Counter claim whichever is higher) above INR 25 Crore excl. 
interest} 
If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual 
consultation and through Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or 
through Mediation (if applicable) within a period specified at Clause 22 (a), 
22 (b) and 22 (c) above, the dispute, if the parties agree, may be referred to 
Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE), in cases where the 
Disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim whichever is higher) is above INR 
25 crore excl. interest. 
1. Invitation for Conciliation through CCIE: 
a. A party shall notify the other party in writing about such a dispute 
it wishes to refer for CCIE within a period of 15 days from the 
date of failure to resolve the dispute through Mutual 
Consultation and Independent Engineer (if applicable) and/or 
through Mediation (if applicable) within a period as specified at 
Clause 22 (a), 22(b) and 22(c) above. Such Invitation for 
Conciliation shall contain sufficient information as to the dispute 
to enable the other party to be fully informed as to the nature of 
the dispute, amount of the monetary claim, if any, and apparent 
cause of action. 
b. If the party initiating Conciliation does not receive a reply within 
fifteen (15) days from the date on which it sends the invitation, 
or within such other period of time as specified in the invitation, 
it shall treat this as a rejection of the invitation to conciliate from 
the other party. 
2. Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts: 
a. Where Invitation for Conciliation has been consented to under 
GCC sub clause 22 (d)(ii)(1) , the same shall be referred to the 
Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts (CCIE) within 
30 days. 
Conciliation Committees of Independent Experts 
(CCIE) have been constituted and notified by MoP for 
settlement of disputes arising in the Contract. There 
are three CCIEs, as specified in Special Conditions 
of Contract . 
 
Page 20 of 46 
 
 
 
 
b. The Buyer may select three CCIEs, in priority order, from the list 
of CCIEs enclosed with the Special Conditions of Contract, for 
finalization by Central Electricity Authority (CEA). 
There shall not be any conflict of interest for the 
members of the CCIE due to their past assignments. 
Individuals CCIE members shall submit an 
undertaking in this regard to the Owner, prior to 
appointment. It shall be ensured that they have not 
been engaged for providing any services to any of the 
parties i.e. either Owner or the Buyer in the last five 
years. An Undertaking in this regard, shall also be 
furnished by the Buyer for the purpose of avoiding 
any conflict of interest. 
3. Proceedings before CCIE: 
a. The procedure of CCIE shall not be treated as alternate 
arbitration proceedings where both parties come with Statement 
of claims/defence, arguments/counter arguments, rejoinders, 
written submissions etc., aided by their respective lawyers. 
b. The parties shall be brief and to the point before the Committee 
with regard to their respective stance and view the exercise in 
the spirit of conciliation/settlement. 
c. The possibility of non-availability of any one of the members of 
CCIE in any proceedings cannot be ruled out. As such, the 
Committee comprising the other two members shall be 
competent to proceed in the matter. The proceedings of the 
Committee shall not be vitiated if one of the three members of 
CCIE is not present in the deliberations of the Committee. When 
the parties sign the settlement agreement, at least two members 
of CCIE shall authenticate the same. Such conciliation 
proceedings shall be considered valid and the settlement 
agreement will be binding on the parties. 
d. The parties shall be represented by their in house employees. 
No party shall be allowed to bring any advocate or outside 
consultant/advisor/agent to contest on their behalf. Ex-officers 
of Owner’s Organization who have handled the subject matter in 
any capacity shall not be allowed to attend and present the case 
before CCIE on behalf of the Buyer. However, ex-employees of 
parties may represent their respective organizations. 
e. The Conciliation proceedings shall be completed in each case 
through 5 sittings in a period of not more 
 
Page 21 of 46 
 
 
 
 
than three months from the date the reference made 
to the CCIE. In exceptional cases, if any dispute so 
merits, the time period may be extended at the 
discretion of Conciliation Committee (with reasons to 
be recorded in writing), for a further period of three 
months. 
f. The CCIE shall hold day to day sitting at a suitable place 
(preferably the headquarter of the Owner or New Delhi) and may 
hold as many sittings every month as it deems appropriate 
keeping in view the volume of work. 
4. Fees and Facilities to the Members of the CCIE 
Each member of CCIE would be paid a sum of INR 50,000/- as 
sitting fee per sitting. In addition, INR 5,000/- per sitting will be 
paid for local transport charges for each day of proceeding. 
In case, a particular dispute requires more than 5 sittings, the 
same may be held at the discretion of the CCIE but with a cap on 
payment of fee for 5 sittings only. The local transport charges 
shall, however, be paid as provided for each day of sitting beyond 
the 5 sittings. 
All expenditure incurred on the conciliation proceedings including 
payment of fees to the Conciliators, office space, logistic, 
secretarial assistance and other incidental expenses etc. shall be 
borne by the Owner initially. Thereafter it shall be shared equally 
by both parties on completion of the conciliation process. 
5. The Parties shall maintain the account of expenditure and present to the 
other for the purpose of sharing on conclusion of the CCIE proceedings. 
The Conciliation process shall be conducted under Part III of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 
In case of failure of the conciliation process at the level of the 
Conciliation Committee, the parties may withdraw from 
conciliation process and take recourse to remedies as may be 
available to them under the applicable laws other than Arbitration. 
In the event of the conciliation proceedings being successful, the 
parties to the dispute would sign the written settlement agreement 
and the conciliators would authenticate the same. Such 
settlement agreement would then be binding on the parties in 
terms of Section 73 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 
After successful conclusion of proceedings, the Parties to the 
conciliation process, have to undertake and complete all 
necessary actions for implementation of the terms of settlement 
within a period of 30 days from execution of settlement 
agreement, unless a different timeline not exceeding 60 days is 
agreed upon in settlement agreement. All pending claims of 
parties, in connection with the dispute, before any other legal 
 
Page 22 of 46 
 
 
 
 
forum are to be withdrawn within the said 30 days in pursuance 
of the settlement agreement. 
6. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being 
in force, the Conciliator and the parties shall keep confidential all 
matters relating to the Conciliation proceedings. Confidentiality shall 
extend also to the settlement agreement, except where its disclosure 
is necessary for purposes of implementation and enforcement 
The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in Arbitral 
or judicial proceedings, whether or not such proceedings relate to 
the dispute that is the subject of the Conciliation proceedings, — 
a. views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in 
respect of a possible settlement of the dispute; 
b. admissions made by the other party in the course of the 
Conciliation proceedings; 
c. proposals made by the Conciliator; and 
d. the fact that the other party had indicated his willingness to 
accept a proposal for settlement made by the Conciliator. 
e. # Arbitration 
i. If the process of mutual consultation and IE (if applicable)and/or Mediation (if 
applicable) and/or ESC fails to arrive at a settlement between the parties, 
Owner or the Buyer may, within Thirty (30) days of such failure, give notice to 
the other party, of its intention to commence arbitration, as hereinafter 
provided, as to the matter in dispute, and no arbitration in respect of this 
matter may be commenced unless such notice is given. The mechanism of 
settling the disputes through arbitration shall be applicable only in cases 
where the disputed amount (i.e. Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, 
excluding interest) is less than INR 10 crores. 
If the claim/ counter claim is in foreign currency, the SBI Bills Selling 
Exchange rate prevailing on the date of claim shall be used for the purpose 
of converting the claim in Indian Rupee 
In case the disputed amount (Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, 
excl. interest) is INR 10 Crores or above, the parties shall be within their 
rights to take recourse to remedies as may be available to them under the 
applicable laws other than Arbitration after prior intimation to the other party. 
There shall be no arbitration where the disputed amount (Claim/ counter 
claim, whichever is higher) is only up to INR 5 lakhs. 
The parties at the time of invocation of arbitration shall submit all the details 
of the claims and the counter-claims including the Heads/Sub-heads of the 
Claims/Counter-Claims and the documents relied upon by the parties for 
their respective claims and counter-claims. The parties shall not file any 
documents/details of the claims and counter-claims thereafter. 
The claims and the counter claims raised by the parties at the time of 
invocation of the arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties and no 
further change shall be allowed in the same at any stage during arbitration 
under any circumstances whatsoever except with leave of the Arbitral 
Tribunal for sufficient cause. 
 
Page 23 of 46 
 
 
 
 
In case, multiple arbitrations are invoked (whether sub-judice or arbitral 
award passed) by any party under this contract, then the cumulative disputed 
amount (i.e. Claim/ Counter claim, whichever is higher, excluding interest) in 
all such arbitrations shall be taken into account while arriving at the total 
disputed amount for the subject contract. Disputes having cumulative value 
less than INR 10 crores shall be resolved through arbitration. In case the 
disputed amount (Claim/Counter claim, whichever is higher, excluding 
interest) is INR 10 crores and above, the parties shall be within their rights 
to take recourse to remedies as may be available to them under the 
applicable laws other than Arbitration after prior intimation to the other party. 
ii. Any dispute in respect of which a notice of intention to commence arbitration 
has been given, in accordance with Sub Clause 22 (e)(i), shall be finally settled 
by arbitration. 
iii. It is agreed between the parties that the Arbitration proceedings shall be 
conducted as per the provisions of Fast Track Procedure as provided under 
The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, as amended from time to time. 
Any dispute or difference raised by a party to arbitration shall be adjudicated 
by an arbitral tribunal consisting of three arbitrators, in the following manner: 
a. A party willing to commence arbitration proceeding shall invoke 
Arbitration Clause by giving notice to the other party 
b. The Owner and the Buyer shall each appoint one arbitrator, and these 
two arbitrators shall jointly appoint a third arbitrator within 30 days, who 
shall act as presiding arbitrator of the arbitral tribunal. If the two 
arbitrators do not succeed in appointing a third arbitrator within 30 days 
of the latter of the two arbitrators has been appointed, the third arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the High Court of Delhi. 
c. If one party fails to appoint its arbitrator within 30 days after the other 
party has named its arbitrator, the party which has named its arbitrator 
may approach the High Court of Delhi to appoint the second arbitrator. 
d. If any member of the arbitral tribunal dies, resigns, becomes 
incapacitated or withdraws for any reason from the proceedings or his 
mandate is terminated by the Court, a substitute shall be appointed in 
the same manner as the arbitrator whose mandate has terminated as 
above. After substitution of new member, the arbitration tribunal shall 
proceed with reference from the stage where the mandate of the 
arbitrator has been terminated. 
e. Arbitrator tribunal shall be paid fees as per the Fee Schedule (presently 
Fourth Schedule) provided in ‘The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996’ 
as amended from time to time. If the claim/ counter claim is in foreign 
currency, the SBI Bills Selling Exchange rate prevailing on the date of 
claim shall be used for the purpose of converting the claim in Indian 
Rupee which may be used for determining the arbitration fee. 
f. If after commencement of the Arbitration proceedings, the parties agree 
to settle the dispute mutually or refer the dispute to mediation or 
Conciliation, the arbitral tribunal shall put the proceedings in abeyance 
until such period as requested by the parties. Where the proceedings 
are put in abeyance or terminated on account of mutual settlement of 
 
Page 24 of 46 
 
 
 
 
dispute by the parties, the fees payable to the arbitrator shall be 
determined as under: 
(i) 40% of the fees if the Pleadings are complete. 
(ii) 60% of the fees if the Hearing has commenced. 
(iii) 80% of the fees if the Hearing is concluded but the Award is yet to 
be passed. 
g. Each party shall pay its share of arbitrator’s fees in stages as under or 
as per the directions of Arbitrator: 
(i) 40 % of the fees on Completion of Pleadings. 
(ii) 40% of the fees on Conclusion of the Final Hearing. 
(iii) 20% at the time when arbitrator notifies the date of final award. 
h. The Claimant shall be responsible for making all necessary 
arrangements for the travel/ stay of the Arbitrator including venue of 
arbitration, hearings. The parties shall share the expenses for the same 
equally. 
i. The Arbitration shall be held at Delhi only. 
j. The arbitral tribunal shall give reasoned and speaking award in prompt 
manner and it shall be final and binding on the parties. 
k. Subject to the aforesaid conditions, provisions of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996 and any statutory modifications or re-enactment 
thereof as amended from time to time, shall apply to the arbitration 
proceedings under this clause. 
iv. In the event of any dispute or difference relating to the interpretation and 
application of the provisions of commercial contract (s) between Central 
Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs)/ Port Trusts inter se and also between 
CPSEs and Government Departments/ Organizations (excluding disputes 
relating to Railways, Income Tax, Customs & Excise Departments), such 
disputes or difference shall be taken up by either party for resolution through 
Administrative Mechanism for Resolution of CPSEs Disputes (AMRCD) as 
mentioned in DPE Office Memorandum No. 05/0003/2019-FTS-10937 dated 
14.12.2022 issued by Department of Public Enterprises, Government of India 
and its further clarifications, modifications and amendments, issued from time 
to time. 
The limit on disputed amount as mentioned at clause 22( e)(i) above shall not 
be applicable and matter may be referred to AMRCD irrespective of the 
amount involved in dispute, if the dispute could not be resolved through 
Mutual Consultation and IE (if applicable) as brought out at GCC Sub Clause 
22 (a)  and 22 (b) above. 
f. Notwithstanding any reference to the Independent Engineer or Mediation or 
Conciliation or Arbitration herein, 
a. the parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations under the 
contract unless they otherwise agree. 
b. the owner shall pay the buyer any monies due to the buyer. 
Settlement of Dispute clause cannot be invoked by the buyer, if the contract has 
been mutually closed or ‘No Demand Certificate’ has been furnished by the buyer 
or any Settlement Agreement has been signed between the owner and the buyer. 
 
Page 25 of 46 
 
 
 
 
23. Force Majeure: 
a. “Force Majeure” shall mean any event beyond the reasonable control of the owner 
or of the buyer, as the case may be, and which is unavoidable notwithstanding the 
reasonable care of the party affected. 
b. If either party is prevented, hindered or delayed from or in performing any of its 
obligations under the contract by an event of Force Majeure, then it shall notify the 
other in writing of the occurrence of such event and the circumstances thereof within 
fourteen (14) days after the occurrence of such event. 
c. The party who has given such notice shall be excused from the performance or 
punctual performance of its obligations under the contract for so long as the relevant 
event of Force Majeure continues and to the extent that such party’s performance is 
prevented, hindered, or delayed. The Time for Completion shall be extended 
accordingly. 
d. The party or parties affected by the event of Force Majeure shall use reasonable 
efforts to mitigate the effect thereof upon its or their performance of the contract and 
to fulfill its or their obligations under the contract, but without prejudice to either 
party’s right to terminate the contract. 
e. No delay or nonperformance by either party hereto caused by the occurrence of any 
event of Force Majeure shall. 
a. constitute a default or breach of the Contract. 
b. give rise to any claim for damages or additional cost or expense occasioned 
thereby if and to the extent that such delay or nonperformance is caused by the 
occurrence of an event of Force Majeure. 
f. If the performance of the contract is substantially prevented, hindered or delayed for 
a single period of more than sixty (60) days or an aggregate period of more than one 
hundred and twenty (120) days on account of one or more events of Force Majeure 
during the currency of the contract, the parties will attempt to develop a mutually 
satisfactory solution, failing which the dispute shall be resolved in accordance with 
relevant clause. 
g. Notwithstanding Sub Clause 23.5, Force Majeure shall not apply to any obligation of 
the owner to make payments to the buyer herein. 
 
War Risks: 
(i) “War Risks” shall mean any of the following events occurring or existing in or near 
the country (or countries) where the Site is located: 
a. war, hostilities, or warlike operations (whether a state of war is declared or not), 
invasion, act of foreign enemy and civil war. 
b. rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny, usurpation of civil or military 
government, conspiracy, riot, civil commotion, and terrorist acts, and 
c. any explosion or impact of any mine, bomb, shell, grenade or other projectile, 
missile, munitions, or explosive of war. 
(ii) Notwithstanding anything contained in the contract, the buyer shall have no liability 
whatsoever for or with respect to 
a. destruction of or damage to Facilities, Plant and Equipment’s, or any part thereof 
b. destruction of or damage to property of the owner or any third party 
c. injury or loss of life 
 
Page 26 of 46 
 
 
 
 
if such destruction, damage, injury or loss of life is caused by any War Risks, and 
the owner shall indemnify and hold the buyer harmless from and against any and all 
claims, liabilities, actions, lawsuits, damages, costs, charges or expenses arising in 
consequence of or in connection with the same. 
(iii) If the Facilities or any Plant and Equipment’s or buyer’s Equipment’s or any other 
property of the buyer used or intended to be used for the purposes of the Facilities 
shall sustain destruction or damage by reason of any War Risks, the owner shall 
pay the buyer for 
a. any part of the Facilities or the Plant and Equipment’s so destroyed or damaged 
(to the extent not already paid for by the owner) 
b. replacing or making good any buyer’s Equipment’s or other property of the buyer 
so destroyed or damaged so far as may be required by the owner, and as may 
be necessary for completion of the Facilities, 
c. replacing or making good any such destruction or damage to the Facilities or 
the Plant and Equipment’s or any part thereof. 
If the owner does not require the buyer to replace or make good any such 
destruction or damage to the Facilities, the owner shall either request a change 
(Change in the Facilities), excluding the performance of that part of the Facilities 
thereby destroyed or damaged or, where the loss, destruction or damage affects a 
substantial part of the Facilities, shall terminate the contract. 
(iv) Notwithstanding anything contained in the contract, the owner shall pay the buyer 
for any increased costs or incidentals to the execution of the contract that are in any 
way attributable to, consequent on, resulting from, or in any way connected with any 
War Risks, provided that the buyer shall as soon as practicable notify the owner in 
writing of any such increased cost. 
(v) If during the performance of the contract any War Risks shall occur that financially 
or otherwise materially affect the execution of the contract by the buyer, the buyer 
shall use its reasonable efforts to execute the contract with due and proper 
consideration given to the safety of its and its subagencies’ personnel engaged in 
the work on the Facilities, provided, however, that if the execution of the work on the 
Facilities becomes impossible or is substantially prevented for a single period of 
more than sixty (60) days or an aggregate period of more than one hundred and 
twenty (120) days on account of any War Risks, the parties will attempt to develop 
a mutually satisfactory solution, failing which the dispute will be resolved in 
accordance with relevant clause. 
(vi) In the event of termination, the rights and obligations of the owner and the buyer 
shall be specified, except that the buyer shall have no entitlement to profit in respect 
of any unexecuted facilities as of the date of termination. 
 
24. Insurance and Buyer’s Liability: 
a. The buyer shall be fully responsible for maintaining all the insurance as per the law 
of land at its cost. 
b. The buyer shall at all times indemnify the owner against all losses, claims, damages 
or compensation arising out of any accident or injury to any person (whether in 
employment of buyer or not) or property in or about the plant including the Silo area 
(inside / outside the plant) which may arise out due to the buyers act / negligence 
while carrying out the contract. 
 
Page 27 of 46 
 
 
 
 
25. Suspension of the supply: 
a. The owner reserves the right to suspend and reinstate execution of the whole or any 
part of the supply. 
b. The owner shall not be responsible for any liabilities for suspension of issue of Fly 
Ash or issue of reduced quantity of Fly Ash for any reason whatsoever. 
 
26. Indemnity for defense of Suits: 
If any action in court is brought by third party against the owner or an officer or agent of the 
owner for the failure or neglect on the part of the buyer to perform any acts, matters, 
covenants or things under the contract, or for damage or injury caused by the alleged 
omission or negligence on the part of the buyer, his agents, representatives or his Sub-
contractors, workmen, suppliers, or representatives employees the buyer shall in such 
cases indemnify and keep the owner and / or its representative harmless from all losses 
damages, claims, expenses or decrees arising out of such action. 
27. Recovery of Sums Due: 
Whenever any claim for the payment of the sum of money arises against the buyer, the 
Owner shall be entitled to recover such sum by appropriating in whole or in part, from 
advance deposited against fly ash and / or the Contract Performance Guarantee deposited 
by the buyer. 
28. Safety: The buyer, including his subagencies, while executing the Works, will strictly 
comply with the statutory requirements (including amendments thereof), as applicable, 
in respect of the safety of his employees, equipment and materials. The applicant will 
also comply with the provisions of NTPC Safety Rules as issued from time to time and 
displayed on NTPC's tender website.  
 
It may kindly be noted that, in case of violation of any of the following points, the EIC will 
impose a penalty of ₹1,000 per reported incidence on the concerned agency. The penalty 
amount shall be deducted from the CPG/BG. 
 
           28.1   In case any agency is found to be involved in unethical practices related to ash lifting,             
                     the EIC may impose a penalty and/or initiate banning action against the agency. 
                     
           28.2    In case of overloading beyond the permissible limit as per the Vehicle Registration  
    Certificate, a penalty may be imposed.  
 
28.3 Ash- loading vehicles without a helper shall not be allowed for lifting. Helpers shall alight           
    at the designated entry point and must act as flag bearers throughout the NTPC Kanti  
    plant premises. 
 
28.4 Breath analyzer checks are mandatory for all drivers and helpers at both entry and exit      
    points of the plant premises. No person shall be allowed to enter the NTPC Kanti  
    premises under the influence of alcohol or any intoxicating substance. If any person is  
    found in an intoxicated state, legal action may also be initiated. 
 
28.5 All drivers and helpers must wear mandatory PPE, including safety helmet, safety      
    shoes, reflective jacket, and mask. Helpers must wear a shock absorber safety belt 
    while climbing on the vehicle for closing the cover. 
 
 
Page 28 of 46 
 
 
28.6 All vehicles must be properly washed after loading. In case of any violation, a penalty  
    shall be imposed. 
 
28.7 In case of over speeding beyond 10 kmph, a penalty shall be imposed for each violation. 
 
28.8 During loading in closed Hywa or bulker vehicles, no driver or helper shall be allowed to  
    climb on the vehicle, and no person shall remain in the loading area. Drivers and helpers   
    must stay at a safe distance from the loading point during loading operations. 
 
28.9 In case a helper is required to climb on the vehicle body, the driver must switch off the  
    Engine and helper must use shock absorber safety belt/full body harness. Any violation  
    of this instruction shall attract a penalty for each incidence. 
 
28.10 Mandatory entry-point checks shall be carried out for each vehicle, including vehicle  
    condition, driver’s license, vehicle registration, fitness certificate, PUC, tax, insurance,  
    reverse horn, helper availability, reflective tape, side LED indicators, breath analyzer  
    test, door latch condition, etc. All agencies must cooperate for compliance. Vehicles not  
    complying shall not be allowed entry. In case of non-compliance, penalties may be  
    imposed or banning action may be initiated against the agency. 
 
28.11 In case any vehicle or agency does not cooperate with the instructions issued by the          
    EIC, a penalty shall be imposed for each violation. 
 
28.12 No agency or vehicle shall damage NTPC property by any means. If found by the EIC,  
    the agency may be penalized five times the normal penalty, which shall be deducted    
    from the CPG/BG. 
 
28.13 All contractors involved in ash transportation from the ash silo shall ensure the proper  
    functioning of braking systems, reverse horns, and lights of all deployed vehicles. 
    Failure to do so shall attract a penalty for each incidence 
 
28.14 In case of any leakage from the ash vehicle body, a penalty may be imposed for each  
    incidence. 
 
28.15 All agencies and their manpower shall strictly follow the SOP, mandatory checks, and  
    all instructions and guidelines issued by the EIC from time to time throughout the entire  
    contract period. 
 
28.16 All persons shall strictly follow the safety instructions given during the Toolbox Talk  
    (TBT) and shall sign the TBT record book after reading and understanding the  
     instructions. 
 
29. Disorderly Conduct: 
The buyer shall at all times take all reasonable precautions to prevent any unlawful, 
notorious or disorderly conduct by or amongst the buyer’s staff and labour and for the 
preservation of peace and protection of persons and property in the neighborhood of the 
delivery site against the same. 
30. Jurisdiction of Court 
Competent Courts at Patna shall alone have jurisdiction in all the matters concerning the 
supply of Ash against this his EOI / Contract. 
 
Page 29 of 46 
 
 
31. No Breach of Contract: 
The failure of a party to fulfill any of its obligations under the contract shall not be 
considered to be a breach of or default under the contract in so far as such inability arises 
from an event of Force Majeure, provided that the Party affected by such an event: 
a. has taken all reasonable precautions, due care and reasonable alternative measures 
in order to carry out the terms and conditions of this contract and 
b. has informed the other party as soon as possible about the occurrence of such an 
event. 
 
Page 30 of 46 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
 
32. Scope of Supply: 
a. Owner would be in a position to make available allocated quantity of Fly Ash from its 
Ash Silos at NTPC Kanti / Other Suitable Locations as decided by Engineer-In-
Charge of NTPC Kanti subject to availability, force majeure conditions and 
unplanned outage of plant, etc. 
b. The owner reserves the right to supply the quantity not lifted by the buyers to any 
other party at the sole discretion of the owner. 
c. Total Fly Ash quantity available to be issued at concessional price in this EOI: 200000 
MT. 
d. Period: One [01] Year. 
 
33. Working Hours: 
The issue of fly ash is intended to be given on all days, including national holidays, or as 
per directions of Engineer-in-Charge. 
34. Delivery Point: 
a. The owner would issue Fly Ash from the discharge chute of designated Ash Silos at 
NTPC Kanti / Other Suitable Locations as decided by Engineer-In-Charge of NTPC 
Kanti. 
b. Fly ash shall be considered to have been issued and collected as it passes into the 
buyer’s vehicle at the loading / delivery point. 
 
35. Quality of Fly Ash: 
The owner would issue Fly Ash from the designated “Delivery Point /s” at NTPC Kanti  on 
“As Available Basis” based on actual weighment. 
36. Evaluation Criteria and Quantity for allocation 
Fly Ash available is being offered through this EOI on “pro-rata basis” process. The fly ash 
shall be allocated based on the receipt of responses to EoI on a pro rata basis (if response 
received more than EOI offered Quantity), and on “as is where is, basis”. However, 
collecting from NTPC`s issue of location and transportation, thereafter, will be in the scope 
of the applicant only. 
37. Award price: 
a. Price chargeable to buyer(s) shall be 100 Rupees per MT. 
b. All statutory duties / taxes / levies including GST shall be charged extra. 
 
38. Period of Supply: 
The duration of supply of Fly Ash from NTPC Kanti Station will be for a period of One [01] 
Year, or till the completion of supply of the allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
39. Upward Quantity Flexibility: 
If requested by the buyer, the owner may consider supplying an additional quantity, up to 
20% of the total awarded quantity, within the contracted period. This is subject to availability 
 
Page 31 of 46 
 
 
 
 
and at the sole discretion of the owner, at the price specified in the LOA for which the 
extension is requested. 
40. Payment Terms and Bank Charges: 
a. Delivery shall be made against advance payment in conformity with NTPC Policy for 
collecting advance [through NTPC’s Customer Payment Portal]. Advance shall be 
adjusted against delivery on a daily basis. 
b. The buyer shall submit an advance amount equivalent to One [01] Month of Annual 
Award Value for the allocated quantity of Fly Ash in the Award Letter, within Fifteen 
[15] days of placement of award. The buyer to pay any taxes / duties extra on the 
applicable rates. 
c. The buyer to deposit the CPG @ 10 % of award value (subject to a minimum of INR 
10,000 /-) in addition to advance mentioned above at clause 40(b) before start of 
work. 
d. Permission to start the work will be given for the first month after deposition of CPG 
and one-month advance payment along with the applicable taxes / duties within 15 
Days of placement of award. 
e. Permission for the next subsequent month will be given after depositing the advance 
payment for that month along with the taxes / duties before start of the that month 
as stated in clause 40(b) above. 
f. All bank charges shall be borne by the buyer. 
 
41. Commencement of first off take: 
Commencement of first off take for applicants of Fly Ash should not exceed beyond fifteen 
(15) days from the date of issue of award letter unless specifically agreed to by the owner. 
 
42. Weighment for invoicing: 
a. Fly Ash shall be issued based on actual weighment. 
b. Unit: The lifted fly ash shall be weighed in terms of MT (Metric Tonne). 
c. Weighment: Weighment of lifted fly ash shall be done at the weighment facility of 
NTPC Kanti or its nearest authorized calibrated weighment facility. Weight so 
recorded shall be considered final. 
 
43. Compensation against shortfall during regular off take: 
a. After commencement of first off take, buyer will be required to lift fly ash on regular 
basis in accordance with agreed quantity as per contracted schedule. The buyer shall 
have to lift the 90 % of contracted quantity / adjusted quantity (in case of short supply) 
on prorata basis. In case buyer fails to lift the minimum quantity (90 % of annual 
contracted quantity / annual adjusted quantity) on prorate basis, compensation 
amount @ 10 % of the awarded price (rounded to the nearest whole number on the 
higher side) will be charged on the shortfall quantity (90 % of annual contracted / 
annual adjusted quantity on prorata basis minus (-) Actual quantity lifted, for the 
period under review), provided shortfall is because of the reasons attributable to 
applicant 
b. Compensation shall be calculated for three consecutive months on a cumulative 
basis. The compensation will be calculated within 15 days following the three 
consecutive months under study. Compensation due on a buyer, if not deposited 
 
Page 32 of 46 
 
 
 
 
separately will be deducted from the advance available or recovered from the CPG / 
SD of the buyer. The compensation amount deducted from CPG if any shall be 
replenished by the buyer in the CPG / SD account within 15 days notwithstanding 
which the supply of fly ash to the buyer will be stopped. Supplies will be started only 
after the ‘deducted amount from CPG / SD’ is replenished. Any decrease in supply 
of fly ash to the buyer due to non-replenishment of the compensation amount will be 
in the account of the buyer 
c. Consecutive three-monthly quantity shall be considered from the scheduled date of 
start till completion of three months and subsequently so on till expiry of contract. 
 
44. Termination of Contract: 
a. In case, fly ash offtake falls below 75 % of (the contracted or adjusted quantity, 
whichever is lower), during any three consecutive months on cumulative basis, 
Owner reserves the right to terminate the contract by giving 15 days’ notice in writing 
of their intentions to do so and in such an event the buyer shall not be entitled to any 
compensation from the Owner. In the event of termination of contract, the liquidated 
damages will be payable by the buyer at the aforesaid rate mentioned in above 
Clause i.e. @ 10 % of the awarded price for the short fall quantity below 90 % of the 
(contracted / adjusted quantity, whichever is lower). 
b. The owner also reserves the right to terminate the contract in the event of breach of 
contract by the buyer giving 15 days’ notice in writing of their intentions to do so and 
in such an event the buyer shall not be entitled to any compensation from the owner. 
In the event of termination of contract for any reasons of breach of contract, liquidated 
damages equivalent to the amount of CPG / SD shall be payable by the buyer. 
i. Following will constitute breach of contract: 
i. Delay in first off-take by buyer from committed date by more than fifteen 
(15) days. 
ii. The buyer is not complying with operational and safety requirements and 
neglecting instructions of Engineer-In-Charge. 
iii. The buyer has failed to discharge its obligations according to the terms 
and conditions of the contract. 
c. The gross amount of liquidated damages / compensation, if any (combined) shall be 
limited to the CPG / SD amount. 
d. The contract for the sale of fly ash may be terminated at any time depending on the 
policy of the Government and / or other concerned authorities. The owner reserves 
the right for withdrawal of the contract in the interest and safety of the station and the 
Company by giving 15 days’ notice in writing to the buyer. 
e. In case, at any point after the award of contract / issuance of LOA under this EOI, if 
it is found that fly ash issued against the contract / LOA is not utilized in the 
manufacturing of ash ash-based product namely, bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold 
bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as applicable to 
the applicant, but have been sold in the market or have been utilized for some other 
purposes, NTPC / Owner shall have the full right to terminate the contract and take 
any action as per applicable laws for breach of contract including forfeiture of Bid 
Security / Performance Bank Guarantee including Debarment from the Business 
Dealings as per the provisions of the relevant policy. 
 
Page 33 of 46 
 
 
 
 
45. Shortfall in supply by Owner: 
a. Fly Ash is a product of coal combustion, which again is subject to the demand of 
electricity in the areas allocated by the regulatory authorities. Scheduled and 
unscheduled shutdowns also affect generation of electricity and thus generation of 
fly ash. Though all efforts will be made to maintain contracted quantity of Fly ash 
available, owner does not guarantee availability of fly ash as per contracted quantity 
regularly and will not be liable for any compensation or damages for non-issue of 
required quantity of the fly ash. 
b. In case owner is unable to provide the average monthly / three consecutive monthly 
contracted quantity of fly ash due to any reasons including forced outages of the 
plant, congestion etc. The owner in respect of each buyer shall accordingly adjust 
the average monthly / three consecutive monthly contracted quantity downward. 
c. Under such circumstances the determination of CPG / SD and Compensation 
referred above shall be computed with respect to adjusted yearly / three consecutive 
monthly contracted quantity. 
d. Determination of monthly quantity i.e., for any three months for termination of 
contract in case of short supply by the owner shall also be computed w.r.t quantity 
made available to the buyer on monthly / quarterly (i.e., for any three consecutive 
months). 
e. The owner may offer an additional quantity of fly ash at a later date subject to 
availability, if agreed by the buyer. The quantity so offered and agreed by buyer at a 
later stage, will form a part of the annual contracted / adjusted quantity. 
 
46. Taxes, Duties, Levies etc.: 
The applicant shall be liable and responsible for payment of all statutory levies in the form 
of GST and all other taxes and duties applicable on the Sale of fly ash. Such statutory 
liabilities, if any, shall be paid by the applicant extra at actual. (“Goods and Services Tax” 
or “GST” means taxes levied under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, Integrated 
Goods and Services Tax Act, Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, and 
various State / Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Laws and applicable cess, if any 
under the laws in force (hereinafter referred to as relevant GST Laws).” 
 
47. Governing Law: The Buyer shall comply with all applicable Central, State and Local laws, 
rules, regulations, notifications, environmental requirements, labour laws, motor vehicle laws 
and statutory obligations applicable to the execution of this Contract. Any violation thereof shall 
be solely at the risk and cost of the Buyer. 
 
48. Assignment clause: The Buyer shall not assign, transfer, subcontract or otherwise dispose of 
any of its rights or obligations under this Contract without the prior written consent of the 
Owner. Any assignment made without such consent shall be void and shall constitute a 
material breach of the Contract. 
 
49. Issue of Fly Ash: 
a. The buyer should depute his authorized representative to the power station for co-
ordination and taking fly ash from designated point, as informed by Engineer-In-
Charge. 
b. Fly Ash will be issued from Silo Chutes / Other suitable locations as decided by 
Engineer-In-Charge to bulkers / closed trucks. Open trucks will not be allowed. 
c. The owner has the right to suspend the issuance of fly ash if the advance amount is 
not available with the owner by the required date and such suspension of offtake 
 
Page 34 of 46 
 
 
shall be to the account of buyer. 
 
50. Responsibility during Transportation: 
The buyer will be responsible for any kind of injuries or accidents caused to their employees 
or labourers or any other person and the owner will not be liable in the matter. If any action 
is brought against the owner for payment of damages or compensation, the buyer shall 
 
Page 35 of 46 
 
 
 
 
indemnify the owner from all such action or claim from damages / compensation. If the 
owner is held liable for any compensation, the buyer shall forthwith compensate the owner, 
if any, such claim arose during or after the expiry of the contract period. 
The buyer’s transporter(s) shall have a valid license and meet the statutory compliance 
requirement of the State Government / Central Government / Concerned Authorities for 
transportation of the specified goods. 
Buyers eligible for collecting ash shall apply for permission for the bulkers / covered trucks 
that they propose to deploy and submit the same to Engineer-In-Charge along with 
specified documents like registration, license, insurance etc., who shall arrange to verify 
the same and issue permission as per prevailing procedure adopted at the NTPC Station. 
Road permits, operator / driver licenses, insurance etc. for the deployed vehicles shall be 
submitted at the time of start of work (and also when new and / or additional vehicles are 
deployed) and thereafter as and when demanded by the Engineer-In-Charge for 
verification. The vehicles shall be in fit condition for safe operation. 
51. Billing: 
Owner will issue Exit gate pass on daily basis and invoices on daily / weekly / fortnightly / 
monthly basis and shall deliver to the buyer(s) an invoice showing the value of the Fly Ash 
delivered / issued for each day, along with applicable GST and all other duty / taxes / cess 
etc. as applicable and shall be adjusted against the advance payment made by the 
buyer(s). 
52. Transportation including Bagging / Packing of fly ash and any other related activity is in 
the scope of the applicant. No claim whatsoever, by the applicant for transportation of fly 
ash will be payable. 
53. Indemnities for Environmental Conditions: 
All Regulatory and Statutory compliances to be ensured by the applicant while lifting / 
transportation / Disposal / Usage / Sale etc. 
The buyer will submit an indemnity bond as per the prescribed format to keep NTPC 
indemnified against legal proceedings / paying damages arising out of non-compliances 
by the applicant, if any (Format attached as Annexure – 06). 
54. Lifting Sequence and allocation after EOI Process: 
To be finalized by Engineer-In-Charge depending upon site specific conditions. 
a. All allocated applicants (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the 
above finalized schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
b. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, 
allocate such quantity to other applicant(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer-In-
Charge (EIC – NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
55. Compliance by Applicants: 
Applicants to comply with all reasonable controls imposed by NTPC Kanti and to cooperate 
with the station and other operating applicants / contractors and to abide by the decision of 
Engineer-In-Charge. In case of any dispute the decision of the Engineer-In-Charge shall 
be final and binding. 
 
Page 36 of 46 
 
 
 
 
 
56. NTPC Kanti reserves the right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case information 
/ details provided are found false even at a later date. 
 
Page 37 of 46 
 
 
 
Part 3: Format for Submission of Response to EoI 
(On official letter head of the Applicant) 
(To be submitted by the Applicant along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue of dry fly ash from  (Name of 
Thermal Power Station (TPP) from where dry fly ash is to issued) 
 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Applicant  
2. Status (Company / MSEs / Local Users)  
2.1 Consent To Operated issued by CPCB 
/SPCB 
 
2.2 GST No, (as may be applicable)  
2.3 PAN No. (as may be applicable)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4 
Nature of Business:  
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year 
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling dry fly ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
 
 
4 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
 
 
6 
 
Dry fly ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
Figures: 
 
Words: 
 
Page 38 of 46 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
Address of the location where Applicant 
proposes to transport fly ash if issued. 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the applicant 
proposes to utilize the dry fly ash, if issued. 
SN Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
11 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:    
Place:   
For M/s   
(User Agency) 
Signature   
Printed Name   
(Authorized person having Power of Attorney) 
 
Designation   
 
 
 
Company Seal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 4: Annexures and Formats. 
 
 
Annexure – 01 
 
UNDERTAKING 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC EOI Reference:   
Applicant’s Offer Reference Number:   Date:   
 
I  son / daughter / wife of   
permanent resident of  do hereby solemnly affirm and state on oath as under: 
 
 
1. That I am / We are the owner / proprietor / partner / authorized representative of M/s   
 having their registered office at   
 
 
2. That I am / We are micro and small enterprise / local ash users [with in 100 km radius of NTPC Kanti], 
engaged in Ash Based product manufacturing of      (bricks, blocks, tiles, 
sintered or cold bonded ash aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels) as per para D(4) 
inserted to the MoEF&CC Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants Dated 
31.12.2021 amended on 01.01.2024. 
We understand that, in case, above document submitted by us are not found to be in order by NTPC / the 
owner at any stage of the expression evaluation, then our application / expression shall not be 
considered for evaluation and be rejected. 
 
3. I / We hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI requirements and accept 
all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. 
My / Our offer is in conformity with all the terms and conditions of the EoI including all 
corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document 
shall be considered as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also 
as and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / Semi – Government 
/ Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have been convicted of violating 
applicable law. 
 
4. I / We, hereby undertake, utilization / ensure utilization of the fly ash, issued by NTPC Kanti, for following 
Ash Utilization Avenues only, as identified in extant MoEF&CC Notification. 
i. Manufacturing of Fly Ash based products viz. bricks, blocks, tiles, sintered or cold bonded ash 
aggregates, fibre cement sheets, pipes, boards, panels as per para D(4) inserted to the MOEF&CC 
Notification on ash utilisation from coal or lignite thermal power plants Dated 31.12.2021 amended 
on 01.01.2024 
 
5. That I / We hereby affirm that Quantity Allotment / LOA shall be rejected at any pre or post EOI stage, if 
it is found that I have applied for more fly ash quantity than required for the production capacity of ash-
based product(s) per annum (12 Month Period) mentioned as above. 
 
 
 
6. That I / We hereby affirm that the dry fly ash issued under this EOI shall be utilized only in the 
manufacturing of ash-based product as mentioned above, and that if at any point after the award of 
contract / issuance of LOA, if it is found that I have not utilized the dry fly ash issued against the contract 
/ LOA in the manufacturing of the items mentioned above but have sold the fly ash in the market or have 
utilized for some other purposes, NTPC / Owner shall have the full right to terminate the contract and take 
any action as per applicable laws for breach of contract including forfeiture of Bid Security / Performance 
Bank Guarantee including Debarment from the Business Dealings as per the provisions of the relevant 
policy. 
 
7. I / We also agree to submit on Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for 
the purposes / Avenues as identified above in extant MoEF&CC Notification, if successful in subject EOI. 
 
8. I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd from any liability, whatsoever, which may 
arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws 
during the course of execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me 
/ us or my / our representatives / agents, if successful in subject EOI. 
 
9. I / We declare that the documents submitted by me / us against the “Eligibility for EoI Participation” 
mentioned at clause number 04 of the subject EOI document, or in any subsequent clarification /s, is / are 
genuine and authentic. If any of the submitted document is found to be false / forged / tampered at any 
pre or post EOI stage or at any point after the award of the contract, I / We shall personally remain 
responsible for any action as per penal provisions of Indian law and NTPC / Owner shall have the full right 
to terminate the contract and take any action as per applicable laws for breach of contract including 
forfeiture of Bid Security / Performance Bank Guarantee including Debarment from the Business Dealings 
as per the provisions of the relevant policy. 
 
10. (Applicable for those applicants whom fly ash has already been allocated ash through an earlier auction 
process /es from NTPC Kanti) 
I / We have been allocated ash through earlier auction process /es also from NTPC Kanti. I / We 
understand that if further quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on 
my / our part to collect all the monthly ash quantity allocated through this EoI, only after the monthly 
quantity /ies allocated against previous e-Auction /s is / are exhausted for that month. 
 
For M/s  
(User Agency) 
Date:    Signature   
Place:   
Printed Name    
(Authorized person having Power of Attorney) 
Designation   
 
 
 
DEPONENT 
 
VERIFICATION 
 
Verified on   this day of   that the contents of our affidavit are true and correct to the 
best of my knowledge and nothing material has been concealed thereof. 
 
DEPONENT 
 
Company Seal 
Annexure – 02 
 
 
 
AFFIDAVIT 
(To be submitted by the Ash Recipient on Half Yearly basis) 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I   son / daughter / wife of   permanent 
resident of     do 
hereby solemnly affirm and state on oath as under: 
 
1. That I am the owner / proprietor / partner / authorized representative of M/s   
  having their registered office at   
 and engaged in the business of   
 
2. That I / we have participated in auction / EoI for allotment of Ash from NTPC Kanti (Muzaffarpur Thermal 
Power Plant), against EoI / Bid Specification / Auction Document number    and that I / 
we have been allocated  MT quantity of Ash from NTPC Kanti (Muzaffarpur Thermal Power Plant). 
 
3. That I hereby affirm that Ash Recipient, M/s   has used the 
received Ash quantity in adherence to the relevant provisions identified vide extant Notifications and other 
applicable statutory regulations, in the following activities: - 
 
a.   
b.   
c.   
 
 
DEPONENT 
 
VERIFICATION 
 
Verified on   this day of   that the contents of our affidavit are true and correct to the 
best of my knowledge and nothing material has been concealed thereof. 
 
 
DEPONENT 
 
 
Note: To be submitted on Half Yearly basis. 
 
 
 
Annexure – 03 
 
MODEL AWARD LETTER FOR SALE OF FLY ASH FROM NTPC KANTI. 
 
 
Ref. No. Dated: 
LETTER OF AWARD 
 
To, 
-------------------------- 
Sub: - Letter of Award for “Sale of Fly Ash” from NTPC Kanti. 
Dear Madam / Sir, 
This has reference to the following: 
a) Expression of Interest (EOI) No. 
containing – 
i. Part 1: General Information for EOI. 
ii. Part 2: Terms & Conditions of EOI. 
iii. Part 3: Format for Submission of Response to EOI. 
iv. Part 4: Annexures and Formats. 
b) Your offer/interest submitted vide Ref. No.  dated   
 
We are pleased to accept your above-mentioned offer and allocate you  MT of dry fly ash 
from Ash Silo / other suitable locations as decided by EIC of NTPC Kanti for a period of 01 year. 
Scope of Supply 
NTPC Kanti would be in a position to make available allocated quantity of fly ash from its Ash Silo 
Chutes at NTPC Kanti / Other Suitable Locations as decided by Engineer-In-Charge of NTPC Kanti 
subject to availability, Force Majeure conditions and unplanned outage of Plant, etc. 
The owner reserves the right to supply the quantity not lifted by the buyers to any other party at the sole 
discretion of the owner. 
Terms and Conditions of Fly Ash Supply: 
The contract shall be performed by you strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions contained 
in General Conditions of Contract & Special Conditions of Contract, e-Tender Catalogue / EoI 
document, definitions, its amendments, deletions & additions to the same attached herewith, except 
amendments / modifications specifically brought in this award letter. 
All the deviations whether implicit or explicit, contained in your offer stand unconditionally withdrawn, 
without any cost implications to NTPC Kanti. 
1. Contract Period: 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.1. The contract shall be effective from the date of issue of this LOA or as per the instructions of 
NTPC’s Engineer-In-Charge. 
1.2. The completion date of contract period / Sale Period is One (01) Year from the date of start, or 
till the completion of supply of allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
2. Commencement of Sale: 
Commencement date of issue of Fly Ash is from  for the quantity mentioned above. 
 
3. Price: 
The price of Fly Ash is INR 100 /- per MT [One Hundred Rupees only], exclusive of all taxes and 
duties. 
 
4. Price Adjustment: 
The price of fly ash indicated at clause 3, above, shall remain firm for the contract period or till the 
completion of supply of allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
 
5. Working Hours: 
Fly Ash is intended to be issued on all days , including national holidays or as per Engineer-in-
Charge. 
 
6. Quality of Fly Ash: 
Fly ash shall be issued from the designated delivery point on “As Available Basis” based on actual 
weighment. 
 
7. Consideration payable by the Buyer: 
Allocated quantity of fly ash for any year shall be divided into monthly quantity & amount payable 
based on the quantity for one month is to be deposited in advance (along with all taxes and duties 
as applicable) through NTPC Customer Portal (in NTPC Account) for the quantity of fly ash to be 
lifted in next month. 
 
8. Delivery point: 
8.1. NTPC Kanti would issue Dry Fly Ash from the discharge chute of designated Ash Silos as 
decided by Engineer-In-Charge of NTPC Kanti. 
8.2. Fly ash shall be considered to have been issued and collected as it passes into the buyer’s 
vehicle at the loading point. 
 
9. Payment Terms: 
9.1. Delivery shall be made against advance payment in conformity with NTPC Policy for 
collecting advance [through NTPC’s Customer Payment Portal]. Advance shall be adjusted 
against delivery on a daily basis. 
9.2. The buyer shall submit an advance amount equivalent to One [01] Month of Contracted 
Award Value for the allocated quantity of Fly Ash in the Award Letter, within Fifteen [15] days 
of placement of award. 
9.3. The buyer to pay any taxes / duties extra on the applicable rate. 
9.4. Permission to start the work will be given for the first month after deposition of CPG and one-
month advance payment along with the applicable taxes / duties within 15 Days of placement 
of award. 
 
 
 
9.5. Permission for the next subsequent month will be given after depositing the advance payment 
for that month along with the taxes / duties before start of the that month as stated in clause 
9.2 above. 
9.6. All bank charges shall be borne by the buyer. 
 
10. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD): 
10.1. Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) / Security Deposit (SD) of INR   /-
[Rupees  Only] i.e., @ 10 % of the value [INR    
/-] of allocated quantity of  MT (subject to a minimum of INR 10,000 /-), has to 
be submitted within fifteen (15) days of issue of this award through NTPC Customer Portal 
(in NTPC Account) or unconditional and irrevocable Bank Guarantee. 
10.2. CPG / SD to be submitted in the form of Bank Guarantee shall be valid for 90 days in addition 
to the period of the contract. 
10.3. The CPG / SD shall be released within Ninety (90) days after successful completion of 
contract in all respects. 
10.4. For commencement of supplies, submission of CPG / SD is a precondition. 
10.5. Failure to comply with the requirement of Submission of Contract Performance Guarantee / 
Security Deposit within the prescribed time shall constitute sufficient grounds for the 
annulment of the allocation order. In that event no damages or compensations shall be 
payable to the buyer. Further, such applicant / buyer shall also be dealt as per the provisions 
of policy for Debarment from Business Dealings. 
 
11. Taxes and Duties: 
11.1. The applicant shall be liable and responsible for payment of all statutory levies in the form of 
GST and all other taxes and duties applicable on the Sale of fly ash. Such statutory liabilities, 
if any, shall be paid by the applicant extra at actual. (“Goods and Services Tax” or “GST” 
means taxes levied under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, Integrated Goods and 
Services Tax Act, Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, and various State 
/ Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Laws and applicable cess, if any under the laws in 
force (hereinafter referred to as relevant GST Laws).”) 
 
12. Commencement of first off take: 
Commencement of first off take by the buyer of Fly Ash should not exceed beyond fifteen (15) days 
from the date of issue of award letter unless specifically agreed to by the owner. 
 
13. Weighment for invoicing: 
13.1. Fly ash shall be issued based on actual weighment. 
13.2. Unit: The lifted fly ash shall be weighed in terms of MT (Metric Tonne). 
13.3. Weighment of lifted fly ash shall be done at the weighment facility of NTPC Kanti or its nearest 
authorized calibrated weighbridge facility. (in case NTPC owned weighbridge is not available 
due to maintenance). Weight so recorded shall be considered final. 
 
14. Delivery: 
14.1. The buyer should depute his authorized representative to the power station for co-ordination 
and taking delivery of Fly Ash. 
14.2. The owner has the right to suspend the delivery of Fly Ash if the advance amount is not 
available with the owner by the required date and such suspension of delivery shall be to the 
account of buyer. 
 
 
 
15. Billing: 
Owner will issue Exit gate pass on daily basis and invoices on daily / weekly / fortnightly / monthly 
basis and shall deliver to the buyer(s) an invoice showing the value of the fly ash issued for each 
day, along with applicable GST and all other duty / taxes / cess etc. and shall be adjusted against 
the advance payment made by the buyer(s). 
 
16. Lifting Sequence and Allocation: 
To be finalized by Engineer-In-Charge depending upon site specific conditions. 
 
16.1. All allocated applicants (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
16.2. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to other ash user(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer-In-Charge (EIC – NTPC 
shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
17. Upward Quantity Flexibility: 
If requested by the buyer, the owner may consider supplying an additional quantity, up to 20% of 
the total awarded quantity, within the contracted period. This is subject to availability and at the sole 
discretion of the owner, at the price specified in the LOA for which the extension is requested. 
 
18. Compensation against shortfall and Termination of Contract: 
18.1. Compensation against shortfall during regular off-take: 
Compensation against Shortfall during off-take will be governed as per clause number 43 of 
the EOI documents. 
18.2. Termination of Contract: 
Termination of Contract will be governed as per clause number 44 of the EOI documents. 
18.3. Shortfall in supply by Owner 
Shortfall in supply by owner will be governed as per clause number 45 of the EOI documents. 
 
19. Undertaking: 
Undertaking [Annexure – 01] for the subject EOI is to be submitted in original to the Engineer-in-
Charge. 
 
20. Affidavit for Utilization of Ash: 
The buyer shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value, certifying the 
complete use of issued NTPC Fly ash certifying the adherence to provisions identified vide extant 
MoEF&CC Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed 
format, shall be submitted on a Half Yearly basis to the Engineer-In-Charge. 
 
21. Authorized Person: 
A proper authorization in the format prescribed by Engineer-In-Charge must be presented to 
Engineer-in-Charge, if the buyer wants to depute an agent / transporter on its behalf. 
22. Safety: 
The buyer would be responsible for the safety of its people for which the buyer should provide 
necessary safety gear to its workers. 
The buyer shall be fully responsible for maintaining all the insurance covers as per the law of land 
at its own cost.Following points may kindly be added to existing clause –It may kindly be noted 
that, in case of violation of any of the following points, the EIC will impose a penalty of ₹1,000 per 
reported incidence on the concerned agency. The penalty amount shall be deducted from the 
CPG/BG. 
 In case any agency is found to be involved in unethical practices related to ash lifting, the EIC may 
impose a penalty and/or initiate banning action against the agency. 
 
 
 
 In case of overloading beyond the permissible limit as per the Vehicle Registration Certificate, 
a penalty may be imposed. 
 Ash-loading vehicles without a helper shall not be allowed for lifting. Helpers shall alight at the 
designated entry point and must act as flag bearers throughout the NTPC Kanti plant premises. 
 Breath analyzer checks are mandatory for all drivers and helpers at both entry and exit points 
of the plant premises. No person shall be allowed to enter the NTPC Kanti premises under the 
influence of alcohol or any intoxicating substance. If any person is found in an intoxicated state, 
legal action may also be initiated. 
 All drivers and helpers must wear mandatory PPE, including safety helmet, safety shoes, 
reflective jacket, and mask. Helpers must wear a shock absorber safety belt while climbing on 
the vehicle for closing the cover. 
 All vehicles must be properly washed after loading. In case of any violation, a penalty shall be 
imposed. 
 In case of over speeding beyond 10 kmph, a penalty shall be imposed for each violation. 
 During loading in closed Hywa or bulker vehicles, no driver or helper shall be allowed to climb 
on the vehicle, and no person shall remain in the loading area. Drivers and helpers must stay 
at a safe distance from the loading point during loading operations. 
 In case a helper is required to climb on the vehicle body, the driver must switch off the engine. 
Any violation of this instruction shall attract a penalty for each incidence. 
 Mandatory entry-point checks shall be carried out for each vehicle, including vehicle condition, 
driver’s license, vehicle registration, fitness certificate, PUC, tax, insurance, reverse horn, 
helper availability, reflective tape, side LED indicators, breath analyzer test, door latch 
condition, etc. All agencies must cooperate for compliance. Vehicles not complying shall not 
be allowed entry. In case of non-compliance, penalties may be imposed or banning action may 
be initiated against the agency. 
 In case any vehicle or agency does not cooperate with the instructions issued by the EIC, a 
penalty shall be imposed for each violation. 
 No agency or vehicle shall damage NTPC property by any means. If found by the EIC, the 
agency may be penalized five times the normal penalty, which shall be deducted from the 
CPG/BG. 
 All contractors involved in ash transportation from the ash silo shall ensure the proper 
functioning of braking systems, reverse horns, and lights of all deployed vehicles. Failure to do 
so shall attract a penalty for each incidence. 
 In case of any leakage from the ash vehicle body, a penalty may be imposed for each 
incidence. 
 All agencies and their manpower shall strictly follow the SOP, mandatory checks, and all 
instructions and guidelines issued by the EIC from time to time throughout the entire contract 
period. 
 All persons shall strictly follow the safety instructions given during the Toolbox Talk (TBT) and 
shall sign the TBT record book after reading and understanding the instructions. 
 
 
23. Pollution Control & Transportation of Fly Ash: 
All possible measures would be taken by buyer to avoid pollution to the satisfaction of the plant 
officials. Similarly, while transporting, no spillage of fly ash would be permitted to avoid air pollution. 
If the process adopted by the buyer is found deficient, NTPC Kanti retains the right to stop the fly 
ash supply forthwith. 
 
24. Transportation including Bagging / Packing of fly ash and any other related activity is in the scope 
of the applicant. No claim whatsoever, by the applicant for transportation of fly ash will be payable. 
25. Buyer and its transporter would be entirely responsible towards MVI / RTO for overloading fly ash. 
NTPC Kanti  in any case will not be held responsible for the same. 
26. Indemnities for Environmental Conditions: All Regulatory & Statutory compliances to be 
ensured by the applicant while lifting / transportation / Disposal / Usage / Sale etc. 
27. Buyer will submit an indemnity bond as per prescribed format (Annexure-06) to keep NTPC 
indemnified against legal proceedings / paying damages arising out of non-compliances by the 
applicant, if any. 
28. Compliance by Applicants: 
Applicants to comply with all reasonable controls imposed by the NTPC Kanti station and to 
cooperate with the station and other operating applicants / contractors and to abide by the decision 
of EIC. In case of any dispute the decision of EIC shall be final and binding. 
29. Competent Courts at Patna shall alone have jurisdiction in all the matters concerning the supply of 
Ash against this his EOI / Contract. 
30. All payments to NTPC shall be made through customer receipt portal https://pgw.ntpclakshya.co.in 
31. Engineer-In-Charge: 
Mr.  |  @ntpc.co.in |  will 
be the Engineer-In-Charge for the contract. 
You are requested to return a copy of this Letter of Award, duly signed, as acknowledgement of the 
same within Fifteen (15) days of issuance of this letter, failing which, this letter of allocation will be 
deemed to be accepted in full by you. 
 
For and On Behalf of NTPC Ltd. 
 
Registered Office: 
Annexure – 04 
 
 
FORM OF ACCEPTANCE OF FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY 
 
Applicant’s Offer Reference Number:   Date:   
 
 
To, 
HOP, NTPC Kanti 
NTPC Limited, 
Adress  
 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We have read the contents of the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC displayed on its tender website 
http://www.ntpctender.com and undertake that we along with our associate / collaborator / sub-contractors / 
sub-vendors / consultants / service providers shall strictly abide by the provisions of the Fraud Prevention policy 
of NTPC. 
 
 
 
For M/s   
(User Agency) 
Date:    Signature   
Place:   
Printed Name   
(Authorized person having Power of Attorney) 
 
Designation   
 
 
Company Seal 
Annexure – 05 
 
 
DECLARATION ON DEBARMENT POLICY 
Applicant’s Offer Reference Number:   Date:   
 
 
To, 
HOP, NTPC Kanti 
NTPC Limited, 
Adress  
 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
1. We have read the contents of Debarment Policy displayed on the website www.ntpc.co.in / 
www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in and agreed to abide by this policy. Further, in terms of requirement under 
Debarment Policy we hereby declare the following: 
a) We have not been Banned / Blacklisted as on date of submission of bid / expression by Ministry of Power 
or Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. 
b) We have not employed any public servant dismissed / removed or person convicted for an offence 
involving corruption or abetment of such offences. 
c) Our Director(s) / Owner(s) / Proprietor / Partner(s) have not been convicted by any court of law for 
offences involving corrupt and fraudulent practices including moral turpitude in relation to business 
dealings with Government of India or NTPC or NTPC's group companies during the last five years. 
2. We further declare as under: 
that if at any point subsequent to award of contract, the declarations given above are found to be incorrect, 
NTPC / Owner shall have the full right to terminate the contract and take any action as per applicable laws 
for breach of contract including forfeiture of Bid Security / Performance Bank Guarantee. 
 
 
For M/s   
(User Agency) 
Date:    Signature   
Place:   
Printed Name   
(Authorized person having Power of Attorney) 
 
Designation   
 
 
Company Seal 
 
 
INDEMNITY BOND 
(On non-judicial paper of appropriate value and to be stamped in accordance with Stamp Act) 
The stamp paper to be in the name of Ash Recipient 
This bond of indemnity is made on this      day of   by   
  (name and address) and   
  (details of the incorporation of the Ash Recipient) hereinafter referred to as the ‘Ash 
Recipient’ which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its successors, 
administrators, executors and assigns) in favour of   NTPC Limited   
hereinafter referred to as the ‘Thermal Power Plant (hereinafter called TPP)’, which expression shall, unless 
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its successors, administrators and assigns) 
 
WHEREAS, TPP has issued to the Ash Recipient, an order / permission letter / Letter of Award Number     
  Dated   and in terms of the said Order, the TPP has 
agreed to issue Dry Fly Ash to Ash Recipient. 
 
AND WHEREAS one of the conditions for the issue of the ‘Dry Fly Ash’ is that the Ash Recipient shall furnish an 
Indemnity Bond in favour of the TPP, indemnifying TPP from any liability of whatsoever nature, which may arise 
due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations / Guidelines / laws during the 
course of execution of order / permission letter / Letter of Award Number   
  by way of omission or commission by the Ash Recipient or its 
representatives / agents. 
 
Now this Indemnity Bond witnesseth as follows: 
 
1.0 The Ash Recipient hereby undertakes to fully and irrevocably indemnify and keep indemnified the TPP 
against any and all of various liabilities of whatsoever nature, which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws including MoEF&CC Guidelines 
during the course of lifting or handling of Dry Fly Ash and for future obligations (if any), by way of omission 
or commission by the Ash Recipient or its representatives / agents for Dry Fly Ash issued by the TPP to the 
Ash  Recipient  vide  order  /  permission  letter  /  Letter  of  Award  Number   
 
2.0 This Indemnity Bond shall be valid till Six (06) calendar months after the scheduled date / actual date of 
complete lifting of allocated Dry Fly Ash Quantity, whichever is later. 
3.0 It is clearly understood and agreed to by the Ash Recipient that non-observance of the obligations under this 
Indemnity Bond by the Ash Recipient shall Inter-alia constitute a criminal breach of trust on the part of the 
Ash Recipient and they shall be liable for all legal / penal consequences thereof as decided by TPP. 
4.0 Now the condition of this Bond is that the Ash Recipient shall duly and punctually comply with all the terms 
and conditions of this bond to the satisfaction of TPP, then, the above bond shall be void, but otherwise, it 
shall remain in full force. 
5.0 That this bond shall be irrevocable during its validity period and the Ash Recipient shall not revoke this bond 
till it is discharged by TPP in writing. 
 
For M/s   
(Ash Recipient) 
WITNESS: Signature   
Signature   Printed Name  
Printed Name   (Authorized person having Power of Attorney) 
Address   Designation   
 
 
 
 
Company Seal 