                              NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
 
Central Procurement Group-I, Raipur 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
Replacement of Stg-1 LT Switchgears at NTPC Unchahar 
 
Tender Ref: NTPC/USSC-CPG1/ 9900330918 
     
1.0 NTPC Limited (NTPC) invites online bids on “ Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis ” 
from eligible bidders for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned 
hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK  
The scope of work comprises of  
 
Replacement of Stg-1 LT Switchgears at NTPC Unchahar 
 
The scope of work shall comprise, but not limited to the supply, erection, testing and 
inspection of equipment’s and materials at manufacturer’s works, packing, supply, 
transportation, transit insurance, delivery to site, unloading, storage and equipment erection 
including associated civil and structural works if any. 
NTPC intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT* 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Pre-bid Conference As per e-tender portal. 
 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time As per e-tender portal. 
 
EMD/Bid Security Rs. 50,00,000/-  
Tender Fee NIL 
MSE Exemption Not Applicable 
 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified 
above.” 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
only. 
  
4.0 All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding 
documents. Option for Online payment of EMD is made available at GepNIC/e tender portal. 
Bidders are requested to please avail the facility. 
For details, please refer to Clause 14 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS) 
On GePNIC portal, “EMD Exemption Allowed” as “NO” and “BG Required” as “Yes” 
Tabs are enabled for the purpose of allowing bidders to submit the scanned copy of 
the bank Guarantee/  Insurance Surety Bond, if online EMD is not opted. Bidders are 
advised NOT to upload MSE/other document for availing exemption. Payment of EMD 
is not exempted in this tender. Bids without adequate Bid Security, as per tender 
provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
Online facility of submitting bid security is enabled. Bid Security/EMD may be paid only 
through online payment of bid security amount applicable for this tender OR through Bank 
Guarantee / Insurance Surety Bond of appropriate value in accordance with the tender 
provisions. 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e-BG 
through NeSL platform. 
In case the bidder is not able to submit e-BG, due to some practical difficulties or 
constraints, physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG as bid security, if opted for, 
should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for 
communication (Clause-13 hereunder) before the bid submission deadline in physical 
form and scanned copy of BG must be uploaded in the FEE folder in the tendering portal. 
Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee / Insurance Surety Bond MUST upload the 
scanned copy of bank guarantee / Insurance Surety Bond and also ensure that original 
physical copy of the bank guarantee / Insurance Surety Bond reaches at the address 
mentioned below before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
5.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 
15, failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a) Tender Fee: NIL 
 
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bidder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid, 
an Earnest Money Deposit of amount ₹ 50,00,000/- (Rs. Fifty Lakh only) 
 
c) Integrity Pact: Applicable 
 
Bank Guarantee for EMD/ Insurance Surety Bond/Performance Security is to be submitted 
as per following: 
 
“The format of the Bank Guarantee / Insurance Surety Bond shall be in accordance with the 
form of Bank Guarantee / Form of Insurance Surety Bond  towards Bid Security towards Bid 
Security/EMD/Performance security included in the Employer’s Bidding Documents only. 
 
Bidder’s to specifically note that format of EMD BG / Insurance Surety Bond towards Bid 
Security should only be as per Bid Security Form / Form of Insurance Surety Bond towards 
Bid Security, specified vide Sec VII Book 3 of 3 and EMD BG / Insurance Surety Bond 
submitted in any other Format including GEM Standard Format shall be rejected for which 
NTPC shall not be responsible. 
 
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed envelope shall 
be rejected by the Employer as being non-responsive. 
 
 
Bid Security shall be submitted in a sealed envelope separately in physical form by the 
stipulated bid submission closing date and time at the address given below.  
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY AND INTEGRITY 
PACT(If applicable) SHALL BE REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-
RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE OPENED.  
 
In case, the bid Security is submitted as E-BG/ electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, 
Bidder to submit the copy of E-BG/proof of e-payment of bid security either in separate sealed 
envelope or in the e-tendering portal. 
All bank guarantees shall be submitted in the form of E-BG through NESL platform and no 
physical BGs shall Be accepted. 
 
6.0 A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to 
provide GSTIN number.  
 
7.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS.  
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: 
 
 
7.1.1 Technical Criteria: 
 
Route 1 
 
7.1.1.1 The Bidder should have manufactured, supplied and commissioned/got 
commissioned at least 450 nos. “draw out type of circuit breaker panels and/or draw 
out type Motor Control Centre Panels” with fault rating of at least 45 KA rms for 
one (1) second and 105 KA peak under a single order and these panels should be in 
operation for at least two (02) years as on the date of the techno-commercial bid 
opening.  
 
AND 
 
7.1.1.2 Bidder should have manufactured, supplied and commissioned/ got 
commissioned at least 150 nos “Air Circuit breaker” having fault rating of at least 
45 KA rms breaking, 105 KA peak making and 45 KA withstand for one (1) second, 
and their associated draw out type circuit breaker panels having fault rating of at 
least 45 KA for one (1) second and 105 KA peak under a single order and these 
panels should be in operation for at least two (02) years as on the date of the techno-
commercial bid opening. 
 
Route 2 
 
7.1.2.1  Bidder should have manufactured, supplied and commissioned/got commissioned 
at least a total of two hundred & twenty five (225) numbers of “draw out type Air Circuit 
Breaker Panels and/or draw out type Motor Control Centre Panels” with fault rating of at 
least 45kA for one (1) second and 105kA peak under a single order and these panels should 
have been in operation for at least two (2) years as on the date of the techno-commercial 
bid opening. 
 
AND 
 
7.1.2.2  Bidder should have manufactured, supplied and commissioned/got commissioned 
at least seventy-five (75) numbers of “draw out type Air Circuit Breaker panels” having 
fault rating of at least 45kA for one (1) second and 105kA peak, which should have been 
in operation for at least two (2) years as on the date of the techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
AND 
 
7.1.2.3 Bidder shall associate/collaborate with a manufacturer who meets the requirements 
stipulated in Route 1 for sourcing of Air Circuit Breakers. In such a case, the 
Associate/Collaborator shall provide a letter of technical support for successful 
performance of the Air Circuit Breaker, as per the format, given in the bidding document.   
This letter of technical support should be submitted along with the techno-commercial bid. 
 
Notes for 7.1.1: 
1. The bidder should have achieved the criteria specified above, even if the total 
contract is started earlier and/or is not completed/closed. 
2. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered 
provided the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by owner 
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of 
qualifying requirements. 
3. Each Single Front Panel shall be counted as one (1) panel, Double Front Panel as 
one (1) panel and Air Circuit Breaker Panel as one (1) panel. 
4. Bidder should meet Technical Criteria either by Route 1 or Route 2. Further, an 
Agency can either participate as a Bidder or as a Collaborator in the above package. 
In case, an Agency/Bidder flouts the aforesaid criteria, then all the bids involving 
such Agency (as a Bidder or as a Collaborator) shall be summarily rejected. 
 
7.2.1 Financial Criteria of the Bidder: 
 
7.2.1.1 The Average Annual Turnover of the Bidder during the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, shall not be less than 
Rs. 1619 Lakhs (Rupees Sixteen Crore and Nineteen lakhs Only). 
 
7.2.1.2 In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above at 
Cl. 7.2.1.1 on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated 
turnover requirements Cl. 7.2.1.1 above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding 
Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than 
the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be 
required to furnish along with its Techno- commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from 
the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company's Board Resolution, as per the 
format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial 
support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
7.2.1.3 Net Worth of the bidder should not be less than 100% of the bidder's paid up share 
capital as on the last day of the preceding financial year on the date of Technocommercial 
bid opening. In case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net worth based on the strength 
of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of its Holding 
Companies, wherever applicable, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and 
or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding company, in combined manner 
should not be less than 100% of their total paid up share capital. However individually, 
their Net worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
Net worth (combined) = [ (X1 + X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be less than 75% of the 
respective paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals. 
 
7.2.1.4 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on 
standalone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder 
can be considered acceptable provided the Bidder further furnishes the following 
documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
ii) A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed 
in the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the Holding Company. 
 
7.2.1.5 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno- 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit 
the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, 
the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year 
shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would 
be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
7.2.2 Financial Criteria for Collaborator/Associate: 
Financial Criteria for Collaborator/Associate shall be same as those of the bidders. 
 
Notes for 7.2.1: 
i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free reserves. Free 
reserves mean all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium account but does 
not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write  back of depreciation 
provision and amalgamation. Further, any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus. 
ii) Other income shall not be considered for computing annual turnover. 
iii) “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act of India, in vogue. 
 
 
8 ‘Class-I local suppliers’’ - are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard before 
submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier (Minimum 
Local Content equal to or more than 60%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid 
Form.  By accepting the MLC provision of GTE, it will be considered that: 
 
“Bidder is 'Class-I local supplier’’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in 
Annexure-I to BDS.  
 
Also, supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for 
violation of ‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP-MII 
Order) dated 15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by 
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case false declaration in respect of Local content, same shall be treated as false declaration 
and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this 
regard before submission of their bids. 
 
9 Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will 
be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines 
of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
10 NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids/NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall 
have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
11 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to 
be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the 
presence of Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
12 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible.  
 
13 Address for communication: 
 
AGM (CPG-I) 
NTPC Limited, Central Procurement Group-I, 
NTPC WR-II office, Sector-24,   
Nava Raipur, Chhattisgarh - 492018  
Email: cpsingh@ntpc.co.in /amitksingh@ntpc.co.in 
Phone: 0771-2515455 / 8004948166 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.com  
 
14 Common IP Addresses: Bidders may please note that GePNIC portal is capturing and 
showing the IP addresses used by the Buyer and the Bidder(s) /Seller(s). The received bids 
having matching/common IP address with either Bidder(s)/Seller(s) or Buyer, shall be 
outrightly rejected & shall not be considered for further evaluation. 
 
 
15 Registered Office 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966.  Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 13-Aug-2026 03:19 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain NTPC Limited||Corporate Centre||USSC||CPG-1
Tender Reference
Number NTPC/USSC-CPG1/9900330918
Tender ID 2026_NTPC_110963_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Online Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Online
Bankers
S.No Bank Name
1 SBI Bank
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf EMD Scanned
Details
.pdf Integrity Pact
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Bid Form with
MLC
Declaration
.pdf
Technical
details and
attachments
.pdf Attachment-
3A
.pdf Technical QR
Documents
.pdf
Financial QR
Documents
and balance
Sheets
.pdf TPIA/ISA
Undertaking
.pdf Power of
Attorney
.pdf
Declaration
regarding
insolvency,
bankruptcy
and
Liquidation
(Attachment-
3L)
3 Finance .xls Price Bid
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 50,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Nil EMD Payable At Nil
BG Required Yes
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00
 
Click to view modification history
 

Work /Item(s)
Title Replacement of Stg-1 LT Switchgears at NTPC Unchahar
Work Description Replacement of Stg-1 LT Switchgears at NTPC Unchahar
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Show Tender Value in
Public Domain
No 
Tender Value in ₹ 0.00 Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 120 Period Of Work(Days) 1080 
Location Western Region Head
QuartersII Plot No. -87,
Secto
Pincode 492018 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Western Region
Head QuartersII
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 13-Aug-2026 05:00 PM Bid Opening Date 04-Sep-2026 04:00 PM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
13-Aug-2026 05:00 PM Document Download / Sale End
Date
02-Sep-2026 03:00 PM
Clarification Start Date 13-Aug-2026 05:00 PM Clarification End Date 20-Aug-2026 05:00 PM 
Bid Submission Start Date 13-Aug-2026 05:00 PM Bid Submission End Date 02-Sep-2026 03:00 PM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 843.74
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tender Documents BIDDING_DOCUMENT.rar Bidding_Document 23652.98
2 BOQ BOQ_114194.xls Price_Bid 326.00
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE- MLC- LAND BORDER CLAUSE- BID SECURITY
DECLARATION)
S.No Particulars Description Expected
Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the
LOCAL CONTENT included in the PACKAGE FOR
COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM
LOCAL CONTENT requirements of the Tender.
MLC Declaration for Services Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept Bid Security Declaration BID SECURITY DECLARATION Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC FRAUD PREVENTION Yes Yes
5.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business
Dealing Policy of NTPC BANNING POLICY DECLARATION Yes Yes
6.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per
tender documents on Restrictions on procurement
from a Bidder of a country which shares a land
border with India
LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying
Requirements QR COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
8.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid
documents NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATION Yes Yes
 
Auto Extension Corrigendum Properties for Tender
Iteration No. of bids required for bid opening a tender Tender gets extended to No. of days
1. 1 4
2. 1 4
3. 1 4
 
Bid Openers List
S.No Bid Opener Login Id Bid Opener Name Certificate Name
1. vkbhojwani@ntpc.co.in Vikas Kumar Bhojwani Vikas Kumar Bhojwani
2. ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in AJAY SHIVHARE Ajay Kumar Shivhare
3. anandshanker@ntpc.co.in ANAND SHANKER ANAND SHANKER
4. cpsingh@ntpc.co.in Chandra Prakash Singh Chandra Prakash Singh
 
Tender Properties
Auto Tendering Process
allowed
No Show Technical bid status No
Show Finance bid
status
Yes Stage to disclose Bid Details in
Public Domain
Technical Bid Opening
BoQ Comparative Chart
model
Normal BoQ Compartive chart decimal
places
2
BoQ Comparative Chart
Rank Type
L Form Based BoQ No
 
TIA Undertaking
S.No Undertaking to Order Tender complying with Order Reason for non compliance of Order
1 PPP-MII Order 2017 Agree Applicable
2 MSEs Order 2012 Not Agree Not Applicable
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name AGM (CnM)
Address Western Region Head QuartersII Plot No. -87, Sector-24, Atal RAIPUR 492018
 
Tender Creator Details
Created By Chandra Prakash Singh
Designation DGM
Created Date 13-Aug-2026 12:33 PM
 