 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED  
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, GROUP-1, RAIPUR 
 
 
 
BIDDING DOCUMENTS 
(COVER PAGE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This document is meant for the exclusive purpose of bidding against this Bid Document No. / Specification 
and shall not be transferred, reproduced or otherwise  used for purposes other than that for which it is 
specifically issued). 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Section I – Invitation for Bids (IFB) 
 
Section II – Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
 
Section III – Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
 
Section IV – General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
 
Section V – Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
 
Section VI – Technical Specifications (TS) 
 
Section VII – Forms and Procedures (FP)    
   
 Section-VII (Part 1 of 2) 
 
  1a. Envelope-I (Techno-Commercial)   
    (Bid Form along with Attachments) 
 
  1b. Envelope-II (Price)  
   (Price attachments and Price Schedules)  
  
 Section-VII (Part 2 of 2) 
                      
                    Other Standard Forms & Procedures  
   
 
 
 
Acronyms 
 
BDS Bid Data Sheet 
CIF Cost, Insurance and Freight 
CIP Carriage and Insurance paid to (place) 
CPM Critical Path Method 
EDI Electronic Data Interchange 
EXW Ex factory, ex works or ex warehouse 
FCA Free Carrier 
FOB Free on Board 
FOR Free on Rail / Road 
FP Forms & Procedures 
GCC General Conditions of Contract 
ICC International Chamber of Commerce  
IFB/NIT Invitation for Bids / Notice Inviting Tender 
ITB Instructions to Bidders 
SCC Special Conditions of Contract 
TS Technical Specifications and Drawings 
UNCITRAL United Nations Commission on International Trade Law 
INCOTERMS International Rules for Interpreting Trade Terms 
GST Goods and Services Tax 
Note : The terms EXW, CIF, etc. shall be governed by the rules prescribed in the current edition of 
INCOTERMS, published by the International Chamber of Commerce, 38, Cours Albert Ler, 
750008, Paris, France. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB)/ 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
UNIFIED SHARED SERVICE CENTRE, GROUP-1, RAIPUR 
CONTRACT & MATERIAL DEPTT 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
SECTION-I 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
NIT no. 9900330869 
Name of work Supply, Installation & Commissioning of Breakers for LT Feeders at NTPC 
Telangana 
 
 
1.    NTPC invites on -line bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding basis  (Envelope-I: Techno-
commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) from E ligible Bidders for aforesaid package-  for NTPC 
Telangana as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter.  NTPC intends to finance 
subject Package through Domestic Commercial Borrowings/Own sources. 
 
2.   Brief Scope of  Work: “Supply, Installation & Commissioning of Breakers for LT Feeders at 
NTPC Telangana” 
 
3.    Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms and Conditions are given in the bidding  
document, which are available for examination and sale at our e Procurement Portal 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) and as per the following details & schedule: 
 
NIT Date/ Document Download 
Commencement Date & Time 
As per GePNIC portal 
Source of IFB/NIT USSC, Group-1, Raipur 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders 
(if any) 
As per GePNIC portal 
Last Date & Time for Bid Submission  As per GePNIC portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per GePNIC portal 
Price Bid Opening Date & Time Shall be intimated separately.  
Cost of Bidding Documents (Tender fee)  Not Applicable 
Bid Security/EMD 
Exemption NOT ALLOWED 
Rs. 5,00,000/- 
Benefit to MSME This is a WORKS CONTRACT.  MSME 
BENEFITS SHALL NOT BE  APPLICABLE 
FOR THE PACKAGE.  
Contract Period 12 Month 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable  
Reverse Auction Not Applicable 
Integrity pact Not Applicable 
“No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer beyond the 
last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified above.” 
 
As per provisions of Bidding Documents, the Bidders shall  submit “ Techno-Commercial 
Proposal” and  “Price  Proposal”  online ( https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app),  within  the  bid  
submission  date  and time as mentioned above. Only Techno -Commercial proposals will be 
opened on the date and time mentioned above or corrigendum/s (if any) thereof.  
 Note: For any corrigendum and extension of date of bid submission, please visit the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
4.    All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security Deposit  / EMD in the form as stipulated in the 
Bidding documents in Clause 10 of Bid Data Sheet (BDS)- Sec III  
 
Additional option for submission of BG directly from the banker is also provided-  REFER BDS-
SECTION III Clause no 7.0 A, for further details. 
 
Online facility of submitting the bid security is enabled.   
 
Bid Security/EMD up to Rs. 1 ,00,000.00 (Rupees one Lac only) must be paid online 
through Gepnic portal ONLY. 
 
The Bank Guarantees against bid security are to be submitted in the form of e-BG through 
NeSL platform. 
 
Details for e-BG issuance are as follows: 
 
e-BG details for new BGs 
1 Beneficiary NTPC Limited 
2 
Pan Number of the 
Beneficiary AAACN0255D 
3 
Date of Incorporation of the 
Beneficiary 07.11.1975 
4 Beneficiary Bank IFSC Code SBIN0017313 
5 
Registered Address 
NTPC Limited, NTPC Bhawan, Scope 
Complex, 7 Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, 
New Delhi -110003 
6 Pin Code 110003 
7 
Active Mobile Number of the 
Beneficiary 9650992291 
8 
Active E Mail Id of the 
Beneficiary ubg@ntpc.co.in, ajaybharti@ntpc.co.in 
9 
Beneficiary BU Code (BG 
Business Area) 
Please mention business area of BG 
pertaining project/station 
10 Contract reference number Please mention Contract/PO/Sale order no. 
11 Vendor Code Please mention NTPC's vendor code 
 
 
In case the bidder cannot submit e-BG, due to some practical difficulties or constraints, 
physical BGs are also accepted. The physical BG/ Insurance Surety bond as bid security, 
if opted for, should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope so as to reach address for 
correspondence (Clause- 16 hereunder) before the bid submission deadline in physical 
form and scanned copy of BG/ Insurance Surety must be uploaded in the FEE folder in the 
tendering portal. 
 
EMD are not exempted in this tender being a works contract. Bidders are advised NOT to 
upload MSE/other document for availing exemption. Bids without adequate Bid Security, 
as per tender provisions, shall be outrightly rejected. 
 
5.   Qualifying Requirements for Bidders: 
 The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated hereunder: - 
5.1   Technical Criteria 
 
5.1.1 The bidder should be a manufacturer of 415V/LT Air Circuit Breakers.  
 
5.1.2 The bidder should have supplied 630 Amp or higher, 415V Air Circuit Breakers with 
Breaking Current rating 45KA or higher.   
 
5.1.3 The bidder should have executed at least one (01) order for retrofitting of Air Circuit 
Breakers for 415V switchgears, which should have been in operation for a period of at least 
one (01) year, reckoned as on the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
 
Notes for 5.1:  
 
1. The bidder must submit Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration 
certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate /type test report /any other statutory document as a   
proof of being manufacturer as per QR.  
 
2. Date of Techno-Commercial Bid opening is original scheduled date of tender opening. 
 
5.2 Financial Criteria: 
 
5.2.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding three (3) 
financial years as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening should not be less than Rs. 460 Lakhs 
(Indian Rupees Four Sixty lakhs only) or in equivalent foreign currency. 
 
5.2.2 In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its 
Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided 
that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least 
equal to or more than the paid- up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder 
would be required to furnish along with its Techno- Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the 
Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in 
the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the 
Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
5.2.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand- alone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification.  
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.  
 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company. 
 
5.2.4 In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno Commercial bid 
opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years 
preceding the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameter s. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents 
stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on the date of techno-commercial bid 
opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters 
is not available. 
 
Notes for Clause 5.2 above: 
 
(i) a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid- up share capital and free 
reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account 
and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced 
from reserves and surplus.  
 
b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” means the aggregate of the balances in 
the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is maintained to record 
regular transactions such as drawings, share of profit, interest on positive. 
 
(ii) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial Statements of the 
Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. While working 
out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid evaluation, Taxes & Duties 
separately indicated (if any), in the Profit & Loss account shall not be considered. 
 
(iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to 
the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
(iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time. 
 
(v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 
1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered Accountant that bidder is not liable 
for audit under section 44AB. 
 
(vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited financial 
statement of last three financial years for evaluating the average Annual turnover, due to the 
incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less than 3 years from the original 
scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be considered and the Average 
annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below:  
 
a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last financial year only, then 
financial year by 1.5. Turnover of last two financial years by 2.5. 
b. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last two financial years only, then 
the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the sum of Turnover of last 
two financial years by 2.5. 
 
(vii) Date of Techno-Commercial Bid opening is original scheduled date of tender opening. 
 
 
6. Notwithstanding anything stated above, the Employer reserves the right to assess the capabilities 
and capacity of the Bidder/ his collaborators /associates/ subsidiaries / group companies to 
perform the contract, should the circumstances warrant such assessment in the overall interest 
of the Employer. The physical assessment shall include but not be limited to the assessment of 
office/facilities/banker's/reference workers by Employer. A negative determination of such 
assessment of capacity and capabilities may result in rejection of the bid. 
 
7. Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding 
documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent 
amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant 
provisions of bidding documents in this regard before submission of their bids. 
8. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible 
to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
9. The bid document consists of the followings:  
 
              Section Name of Document 
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB)  
III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
VI Technical Specifications/Scope of Work, Drawings and Quality Plans 
VII  Forms and Procedures (FP) 
   Part 1 of 2- Bid Form along with Attachments and Price Schedules 
  Part 2 of 2- Standard Forms & Procedures 
10. The bidding document is available online. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
 
11. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe that 
bidder is considered qualified. 
 
12. Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
13. The bid specific data for the package mentioned Bid Data Sheet (Section III - BDS) shall amend 
and/or supplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidders (Section II - ITB). Wherever there 
is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section- V, shall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section- IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a 
conflict, the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding 
Document. 
 
14. NTPC reserves the right  to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate 
corrigendum/amendments published in the portal at any time. NTPC also reserves the right to 
extend/change the bidding schedule through publishing necessary corrigendum/amendments 
in the portal if the situation demands so at any time.  The corrigendum as decided by NTPC and 
deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions therein. This will prevail over the 
relevant provisions elsewhere in the bid document. The corrigendum/amendment as 
published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed that the 
information contained therein will have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders 
are advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendum, if any. 
            
15. UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of 
India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), 
will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN)  generated in line with the Gazette 
Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI).  It is mandatory to 
mention UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) by the bidders while submitting audited 
financial statements, other CA certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette 
notification dt. 02.08.2019. 
 
16. The Bidder would be required to register on the website. First time users are required to register 
themselves on NTPC tender website ( https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required 
details. Note that 1st time bidders can participate in NTPC Open Tenders without having NTPC’s 
Vendor Code.  
  However, users whose email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by NTPC/ first 
time users not  having been allotted any vendor code by NTPC, should send a copy of the 
registration details to the e- mail address specified in this NIT under Address for Communication 
with following details at least three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
  
a) Request on the letter head of the Company 
b) Address Proof 
c) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
d) Email ID and Contact No. 
e) Name and Designation of the contact person 
f) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank  
 
Vendor Code shall only be issued to the 1st time bidder during evaluation, who becomes L1. 
 
17. All references to the “Policy for Withholding & Banning of Business Dealings”  appearing 
anywhere in the Standard Bidding Documents shall be replaced with “Policy for Debarment 
from Business Dealings” , which is available at www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in  and 
www.ntpc.co.in.  
 
18. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the NIT for the subject 
package without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder/intending bidder 
shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
19. It is hereby certified that all the guidelines circulated by NTPC in pursuance of Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India) ‘PPP -MII’ Orders issued by DPIIT / MoP have been complied with 
for the subject tender. 
 
20.  Address for Communication 
1. Sh. A K Shivhare, 
DGM (C&M/CS) 
 
2. Sh. Amit Kumar Singh 
AGM (C&M/CS) 
 
NTPC Limited,  
Unified Shared Service Centre, 
Central Procurement Group-1,  
Western Region-II Head Quarter, Plot No.-87, Sector-24, Atal Nagar 
Nava Raipur, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Pin Code-492101 
Tel. No.: 0771-2515493/267 
Email: ajaykumarshivhare@ntpc.co.in / amitksingh@ntpc.co.in   
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in, www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
        Registered Office:  
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966. 
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 