NTPC LIMITED 
 
 
SALIENT TECHNICAL FEATURES AND BREIF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
Site Enabling Works Package for Great Nicobar Island Gas Engine Power Project (108 MW 
± 5 MW): Bidding Document No. CS-6401-301A-9 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
“Salient Technical Features of the equipment/systems/services covered in the Bidding Document 
No. CS-6401-301A-9 are mentioned below. These Salient Technical Features are mentioned only 
to facilitate the prospective bidders to prima -facie understand the requirements under the tender 
and shall not in any way limit or alter the scope of work and technical features/specification of 
equipment/ systems/ services covered in the Bidding Docum ents. Detailed provisions in regard of 
scope of work and technical features/ specification of equipment/ systems/ services, contained in 
the Bidding Documents shall be final and binding.”  
 
1. General 
 
NTPC is planning to establish an Gas Engine Power Plan t in mu ltiple phases near Galathea 
Bay, Great Nicobar Island. Phase-I of the project shall have an installed capacity of 108 MW ± 
5 MW. 
The present package covers Site Enabling Works  required for development of the project 
areas and associated civil infrastructure. 
The salient technical features are intended only to provide prospective bidders with a prima 
facie understanding of the requirements. They shall not limit or modify the scope of work, 
technical features, specifications, equipment, systems or serv ices covered under the Bidding 
Documents. In case of any discrepancy, the detailed provisions of the Bidding Documents shall 
prevail and shall be final and binding. 
Bidders are advised to visit the project site and assess the local site conditions for prep aration 
of a comprehensive and fully compliant bid. 
 
2. Project Location 
 
The proposed LNG Gas Engine Power Project is located at Great Nicobar Island , near 
Galathea Bay/Galathea River. 
 
 Approximate coordinates: 6°49’ N, 93°51’ E 
 The site is approximately 45 km from Campbell Bay. 
 Campbell Bay is connected to Port Blair through ship and helicopter services. 
 The site can be approached through sea from Port Blair, approximately 520 km away. 
 Road connectivity to the site is available from Campbell Bay. 
 Transportation to and from the project area is subject to the local island infrastructure and 
available government-operated ferry and limited air services. 
 
3. Land and Site Conditions 
 
Approximately 96 acres (0.39 sq. km)  of land has been identified for power inf rastructure, 
within which Phase-I of the 108 MW project shall be located. 
 
The site is characterized by: 
 
 Existing vegetation and tree cover. 
 Undulating terrain. 
 Ground level variation from approximately RL (+) 4.0 m to RL (+) 65.0 m. 
 Site development requirements involving cutting, filling, grading and slope stabilization. 
 
The tentative General Layout Plan (GLP)  attached with the Technical Specifications shall be 
referred to for further details. 
 
Brief Scope of Work  
 
1. Tree Cutting & Site Clearing  – Tree e numeration, cutting, vegetation clearance, 
handling, transportation and stacking of felled timber/logs.  
2. Site Levelling & Grading – Excavation, cutting, filling, grading and compaction to achieve 
the required formation/finished ground levels.  
3. Boundary Wall & Security – Construction of 3.6 m high precast RCC panel boundary 
wall, including RCC columns, beams, foundations, gates and concertina coil fencing 
wherever specified.  
4. Associated Civil Works  – All incidental and miscellaneous civil works necessary for  
completion of the site enabling works including Construction of RCC surface drainage 
system within the designated project areas.  
 
 