NTPC LIMITED 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
FOR 
 
SITE ENABLING WORKS PACKAGE  
 
FOR  
 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND GAS ENGINE POWER PROJECT (108 MW ± 5 MW)  
 
 
LOCATED AT 
GREAT NICOBAR ISLAND, INDIA 
 
 (Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
  
IFB No.: CS-6401-301A-9        Date:22.08.2026 
Tender ID: 2026_NTPC_111239_1                   
 
A. NTPC invites on-line bids for Site Enabling Works Package for Great Nicobar Island 
Gas Engine Power Project (108 MW ± 5 MW), at NTPC e-procurement portal of NIC at 
website- https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ on Single Stage Two Envelope Basis (i.e., 
Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid and Envelope-II: Price Bid) from eligible Bidders 
for aforesaid package, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
B. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Brief scope of work for "Site Enabling Works package for Gr eat Nicobar Island Gas 
Engine Power Project (108 MW ± 5 MW" package is as follows: 
 
 The proposed LNG Gas Engine Power Project is located at Great N icobar Island, near 
 Galathea Bay/Galathea River. Major activities included in the scope of work are as follows: 
 
1. Tree Cutting & Site Clearing – Tree enumeration, cutting, ve getation clearance, 
handling, transportation and stacking of felled timber/logs.  
2. Site Levelling & Grading – Excavation, cutting, filling, gra ding and compaction to 
achieve the required formation/finished ground levels.  
3. Boundary Wall & Security – Construction of 3.6 m high precas t RCC panel 
boundary wall, including RCC columns, beams, foundations, gates and concertina 
coil fencing wherever specified.  
4. Associated Civil Works – All incidental and miscellaneous ci vil works necessary 
for completion of the site enabling works including Constructio n of RCC surface 
drainage system within the designated project areas.  
Detailed scope of work has been specified in the bidding documents. 
 
C. NTPC intends to finance the aforesaid Package through mix of debt & equity. 
 
D.  Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions ar e given in the Bidding 
Documents, which are available at the NTPC e-procurement portal  of NIC at 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. The Bidding Schedule for the Tender is as under:  
 
Bidding Document No CS-6401-301A-9 
Documents Download Date and Time 22.08.2026 onwards 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders  07.09.2026  
Pre Bid Conference Date 07.09.2026  
Bid (both Techno-Commercial and Price) 
submission end date & time 
21.09.2026 up to 1300 Hrs.(IST) 
 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-I (Techno-
Commercial bid) 
21.09.2026 at 1530 Hrs.(IST) 
 
Date & Time for opening of Envelope-II (Price bid) Shall be intimated after opening of 
Techno- Commercial Bid. 
Estimated Cost of Work INR 34.19 Crore excluding GST 
INR 40.35 Crore including GST 
 
Note: Bidders are advised to visi t the GePNIC (e-tender) portal  o f  N T P C  f o r  
updated bidding schedule of the Tender, if any. 
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, sh all be entertained 
by the Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified at GePNIC 
portal of NTPC. 
 
E. All bids must be accompanied by Bid Security for an amount of INR 50,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees Fifty Lakh Only) in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents. 
 
“ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY SHALL BE 
REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. 
 
IN CASE THE BID SECURITY IS DEPO SITED BY THE BIDDER IN THE FORM  OF E-
BG/THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE  
COPY OF E-BG/PROOF OF EPAYMENT OF  BID SECURITY IN THE E-TENDERI NG 
PORTAL. 
 
IN CASE THE BID SECURITY (OTHER THAN BG) IS DEPOSITED BY THE BIDDER IN 
PHYSICAL FORM, BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE ORIGINAL INSTRUMENT IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE AND A COPY OF THE SAME IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
 
ALL BANK GUARANTEES SHALL BE SUBMITTED IN THE FORM OF E-BG 
THROUGH NESL PLATFORM AND NO PHYSICAL BGs SHALL BE ACCEPTED.” 
 
F. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
the e-Tender Portal as per specified schedule. The tender is in vited under e-tendering 
process. The bidders can enroll th emselves on the website https ://eprocurentpc.nic.in/. 
The use of Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Class-3 key is m andatory for e-tendering 
activities. Accordingly, bidder s should have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) key of 
Class 3 to participate in e-tendering. Bidders, if required, can obtain DSC Class-3 key from 
agencies authorized by Govt. of India. The e-Tender Portal also  has the user manuals 
with detailed guidelines on enrolment and participation in the bidding process.   
 
No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. Bids shall b e submitted only 
at the e-Tender Portal i.e. https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ 
 
G. Qualifying Requirements for Bidders (QR):  
 
 
Qualifying Requirement (QR) for subject package is attached as Appendix-I.  
    
H. Class-I local suppliers are only eligible to participate in thi s tender, as defined in the 
bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in In dia), Order 2017 and 
its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidde rs may apprise 
themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in t his regard before 
submission of their bids. 
 
Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid. Bids received  (if any) from Class-II 
Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall be out rightly rejected. 
 
I. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with Indi a’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Any bidder from India having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an 
entity from a country which shares a land border with India, wi ll be eligible to bid only if 
the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority as mentio ned in the Bidding 
Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Governm ent of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
J. Transfer of Bidding Documents by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible. 
 
K. Downloading/Issuance of Bidding Documents and /or submission of Bid shall not construe 
that such Bidder is considered to be qualified.  
 
L. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/ withdraw the Invitation for Bids 
under subject IFB without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / 
intending bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
M.  Address for Communication: 
 
DGM (CS) / GM(CS) 
NTPC Limited, 
6th Floor, Engineering Office Complex, 
A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (UP), INDIA  Pin - 201 301 
Tel. No.: +91-9650991817/9650099276 
E-mail: amitk@ntpc.co.in/bmandal@ntpc.co.in 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in  
 
N. Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966,  
Website: www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
      
 
 
Approved Qualifying Requirement for “Site Enabling Works packag e for Great Nicobar 
Island Gas Engine Power Project (108 MW +/- 5 MW)” 
 
In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the 
Bidder should also meet the technical qualifying requirements s tipulated in Clause 1 and 
financial requirements as stipulated in Clause 2. 
 
1. Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 The bidder should have executed/completed Similar Works during the last seven (7) years, 
reckoned as on date of Techno-commercial bid opening as indicated below: - 
(a) Executed value not less than Rs. 27 Crores in one order; 
                                         OR 
(b) Executed value not less than Rs. 17 Crores each in two orders; 
                                          OR 
(c)  Executed value not less than Rs 13.5 Crores each in three orders. 
 Similar Work means works comprising of “Civil works including Earthworks 
 & Reinforced Cement Concrete works in a power plant or Industr ial Plant or Infrastructure 
 project (Road & bridges).  
 
 
Notes: 
 
(i) The term “executed/completed” means the bidder should have achieved the criteria 
specified at Clause No. 1.1 of QR above, even if the total contract/order is not completed / 
closed. In case of contract/order under execution as on last da te of the month preceding 
the month of publication of NIT, the value of work executed against contract/order till such 
date shall be considered, provided the same is certified by the Owner/Project Authority. 
(ii) Reference work executed by a Bidder as a sub-contractor may also be considered provided 
the certificate issued by main contractor is duly certified by Owner/Project Authority 
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-contractor in support of Qualifying 
Requirements. 
(iii) In case of composite work/BOQ, the bidder shall have to f urnish Certificate from 
Owner/Project Authority certifying the value of specific nature  of work, as mentioned in 
clause 1.1. 
(iv) For the purpose of arriving at the executed value of order  specified at 1 above, basic 
amount only shall be considered. In case of an order/contract i nclusive of Taxes, agency 
has to provide the break-up of basic value and tax. 
      
 
(v) The bidder can meet the requirements stipulated under clause 1.1. above either in a single 
order or collectively in multiple orders (not more than two or three, as applicable). 
(vi) The value of completed works shall be given a simple weigh tage to bring them at current 
price level by adding 5% for each year on prorata basis after t he end date of 
completion/execution of the reference work, till the last day o f month previous to one in 
which NIT has been invited. The specified value of executed wor ks is excluding of any 
taxes and duties. 
 
2. Financial Criteria  
 
2.1.0 Financial Criteria for the Bidder  
 
2.1.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on stand alone basis, in the preceding 
three (3) financial years as on the date of Techno-commercial b id opening should not be 
less than Rs 22.50 Crores (Indian Rupees Twenty-Two Crores Fifty Lacs only ) or in 
equivalent foreign currency. 
 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteri a, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements 
as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the 
Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its 
Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding  Company, supported 
by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format en closed in the bid 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial sup port for the execution of 
the Contract by the Bidder in case of award.  
 
2.1.2 (a) Net worth of the bidder should not be less than 25% (Twenty five percent) of the Bidder’s 
paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial Year reckoned from 
the date of Techno-commercial bid opening.  
 
  And 
 
(b) Net Worth of the bidder should not have eroded by more than  30% in last three 
Financial Years.  
 
However, Clause (b) is not applicable if Net Worth is equal to or more than 100% of 
Paid-up Share capital.  
 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidia ry(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, wherever ap plicable. In such 
a case, however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, in a combined manner, should 
not be less than 100% of the paid-up share capital. However, the individual Net Worth 
of the bidder should be Positive and for others, the Net Worth should be at least 75% 
of their respective PaidUp share capitals.  
 
      
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows:  
 
Net worth (combined)= [ (X1+ X2 +X3) / (Y1 +Y2+Y3)] X 100  
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worths and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share 
capitals. 
 
2.1.3 In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited fin ancial statements on stand-alone 
entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the Bidder can be 
considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the followi ng documents for 
substantiation of its qualification. 
  
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements  of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company.  
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated fi nancial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company.  
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as o n the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results  certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, B idder is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant c ertifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial  parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the forma t enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Com pany are under audit as 
on the date of techno commercial bid opening and the Certificat e from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes: 
 
 (i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and 
free reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the profits and share 
premium account but does not include reserves credited out of t he revaluation of the 
assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses t o the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus.  
 
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” mea ns the aggregate of the 
balances in the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is 
maintained to record regular transactions such as drawings, sha re of profit, interest on 
capital and other owner/partner related adjustments. The aggregate of balances should 
be positive. 
 
 (ii)  Annual turnover shall mea n Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial Statements 
of the Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. While 
working out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid evaluation, Taxes 
& Duties separately indicated (if any), in the Profit & Loss account shall not be considered. 
 
(iii)  For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, excha nge rate as on seven (7) days 
prior to the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used.  
      
 
 
(iv)  “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the  meaning ascribed to them 
as per Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time. 
 
 (v)  If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall 
be considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered Accountant that bidder is 
not liable for audit under section 44AB.  
 
(vi)  In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not fur nish his / their audited financial 
statement of last three financial years for evaluating the aver age Annual turnover, due to 
the incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of  less than 3 years from the 
original scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder sh all also be considered and 
the Average annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below: 
 
a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for th e last financial year only, 
then such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the 
Turnover of the last financial year by 1.5.  
b. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for th e last two financial years 
only, then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrive d at by dividing the 
sum of Turnover of last two financial years by 2.5. 
(vii) For meeting financial criteria stipulated under the Quali fying Requirements, financial 
 statements on standalone basis will be considered. 
 
 
Note for Clause (1) & (2) 
 
(i)     For the purpose of this tender, any reference to the da te of Techno-commercial bid 
opening for qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned in the qualifying requirements, 
shall be taken as the date of Techno-commercial bid opening spe cified in the initial 
published NIT/IFB. 