Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6166 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Station 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
1. NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited (NTECL), a JV of NTPC Ltd. & TANGEDCO 
invites online bids for its 2 X 500 MW + 1 X 500 MW  Thermal Power Station at Vellivoyal 
Chavadi Post, Ponneri Taluk, Thiruvallur Distt., Chennai, Tamilnadu from eligible bidders for 
the following package. 
 
Description of work Bid Security / EMD Contract Period 
 
BIENNIAL CONTRACT FOR CIVIL 
MAINTENANCE WORKS AT NTECL TOWNSHIP 
 
Rs.10,00,000/- 
(Rupees Ten 
Lakhs only) 
24  
(Twenty Four) 
Months 
 
2. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK: 
 
The scope of the subject package “BIENNIAL CONTRACT FOR CIVIL MAINTENANCE 
WORKS AT NTECL TOWNSHIP”. 
 
3. Not Used 
 
4. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QR):  
 
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated here under: 
 
A The bidder in the preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of techno -commercial bid 
opening should have executed “Civil Maintenance / Repair works or Civil Construction 
woks#” with,  
 
i. Single (01) order, of executed value not less than ₹ 215 Lakhs  
(Rupees Two Hundred Fifteen Lakhs) 
OR 
ii. Two (02) orders, each of  executed value not less than ₹ 134 Lakhs 
(Rupees One Hundred Thirty Four Lakhs) 
OR 
iii. Three (03) orders,  each of executed value not less than ₹ 108 Lakhs 
(Rupees One Hundred Eight Lakhs) 
 
Note: The values indicated above are exclusive of taxes. 
Note:# Execution of earth work / road works in isolation will not be considered.   
B The average annual turnover (AATO) of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial 
years as on the date of techno- commercial bid opening, shall not be less than ₹ 269 Lakhs 
(Rupees Two Hundred Sixty Nine Lakhs). 
 
Notes:  
i)   Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
i)  In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno - 
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountants shall be considered acceptable. In case, the bidder is not able 
to submit the certificate from Practicing Chartered Accountants certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6166 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters.  Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as 
on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountants certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
5. BRIEF DETAILS:  
 
Type of Bidding Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding 
Document download start / end date As per e-bid 
Last Query date (Queries shall be entertained up 
to this date only) As per e-bid  
Last Date and Time for Bid Submission (Both 
Techno-commercial Bid and Price Bid)  
i.e. Envelope - I & II together. 
As per e-bid  
Bid  Opening Date & Time   As per e-bid  
Benefits to MSE’s Not Applicable being WORKS CONTRACTS 
After Techno-commercial bid opening, the bids submitted shall be evaluated for meeting both the 
Qualifying Requirements & Technical Requirements.  Only those bidders meeting the Qualifying 
Requirements and complying with the Technical Requirements shall be considered for Price Bid 
Opening.  
 
6. OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
 
1.   Detailed specifications, Scope of work, Terms & conditions etc., are given in the bidding 
documents. Bid documents can be downloaded from the website 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
 
2.  Methodology for registration and submission of bids is available at https://etenders.gov.in. 
 
3.  It is deemed that bidder shall accept all the terms and conditions mentioned in the tender 
documents without any deviation. For that the bidders are requested to submit the “NO 
DEVIATION CERTIFICATE” for fulfillment of technical/commercial compliance. NO 
DEVIATION IS ACCEPTABLE TO NTECL. IF ANY DEVIATION IS TAKEN BY THE 
BIDDER IN THE “NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATE” OR ANY WHERE ELSE IN THE 
DOCUMENTS INCLUDING BOQ, THEIR BID SHALL BE SUMMARILY REJECTED. 
 
4.  Any Clarification related to the scope, terms & conditions of contract shall be sought under 
Clarification tab of the on-line bid, latest by the query date as mentioned in the documents. 
Clarifications received after the specified date from the agencies w ill not be entertained. 
NTECL shall respond to any request for clarification or modification of the bidding 
documents that it receives within the time line specified. 
 
5.  NTECL shall post the Clarifications under Clarification / Corrigendum tab at e -tender 
website. Bidders can view these clarifications. Bidders are advised to regularly check 
under Clarification / Corrigendum tab regarding posting of clarification, if any. 
 
6. ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE EMD / BID SECURITY SHALL 
BE REJECTED BY THE BUYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT BE 
OPENED. 
 
7. Bidders must check the Clarifications issued before submission of Bid. Should NTECL 
deem it necessary to amend the Bidding Document as a result of a clarification, it shall 
Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6166 
do so and upload the amendments in the tender on the e -tender portal. After this stage, 
no deviation is acceptable to NTECL.  
  
 
8. The prospective bidders are invited to submit their Bid comprising of Techno - Commercial 
Bid and Price Bid for the subject package, in line with the provision of the bidding 
documents. 
 
9. The cost on account of preparation and submission of Bid, negotiations, discussions etc., 
as may be incurred by the Bidder in the process, are not reimbursable by the owner, and 
the owner will in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct 
or outcome of the bidding process. 
 
10. Transfer of Bidding Documents downloaded by one intending Bidder to another is not 
permissible. 
 
11. The Owner (NTECL) reserves the right to accept or reject any bid, and to annul the bidding 
process and reject all bids at any time prior to award of contract, without thereby incurring 
liability to the affected Bidder or bidders or any obligation to inform the affected Bidder or 
bidders of the grounds for the Owner’s action. Decision of Owner will be final and binding 
in this regard. 
 
12.  NTECL reserves the right to amend/alter/add/delete any provision of this document. 
 
13. Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken  /  signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered 
Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying 
Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated 
in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI). 
 
14. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the 
Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
  Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology 
(ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, 
will be eligible to bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
  However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries 
(even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
15. Bid Submission: Bidders shall submit their offer / proposal as per Cl.No.17 of Instruction 
to   bidders (ITB). 
 
16. The laws applicable to the contract shall be the law in force in India. The courts of Chennai 
alone shall have the exclusive jurisdiction in all matters arising under the contract. 
 
Address for 
Communication 
AGM (C&M) 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Station,  
Kuruvimedu Village, Ponneri  Taluk ,  
Vellivayal  Chavadi  Post  , Thiruvallur District,  
Chennai - 600103 
Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6166 
Contact Persons 
Jaideep 
DGM (C&M),  
email:  jaideep@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
 