

Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 1 of 14 
 
 
NOTICE 
for 
Issue of Pond Ash on ‘Free of Cost’ basis to Road Projects / Flyover 
embankments / Dams / Mines / Shoreline Protection structures in coastal 
Districts / Low Lying (as per extant MoEFCC Notification and policy), from 
NTPC Barh. 
Ref No. NOTICE No. NTPC Barh/AM-3 /Pond Ash / 2026              Date: 24.08.2026 
 
 
This Notice consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information. 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response(s) to Notice. 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Ash User(s). 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B. 
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the Ash User, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 2 of 14 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NTPC Barh: 
NTPC Barh, located at Barh, District Patna, Bihar having a total installed capacity of 3300 MW, 
is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF&CC 
Gazette Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, NTPC Barh intends to 
issue some of its Pond Ash on free of cost to Road Projects / Flyover embankments / Dams / 
Mines / Shoreline Protection structures in coastal Districts / Low Lying (as per extant MoEF&CC 
Notification and policy). Transportation cost (to the extent requested by the interested Ash User 
– with the provision that agency requesting the least support shall b e given higher preference) 
shall be borne by NTPC Barh within limits and as per criteria set by extant Government 
Notification, Advisory and Policy. Preference shall be given to requests having minimum cost 
implication to NTPC for ash transportation. 
To facilitate this, A Notice is being served by NTPC Barh, in compliance with MoEF&CC Gazette 
Notification dated 31.12.2021 on Fly Ash Utilization to the agencies engaged in construction 
activities such as road laying, road and flyover embankments, shoreline protection structures in 
coastal districts and dams, Low Lying,  Mine Owners for Mine backfilling and OB Mixing, within 
300 kms radius, for a period from September’26 to March’27, from its 3 X 660 MW Stage-I units 
and 2 X 660 MW Stage-II units. 
Further details regarding this Notice are as follows: 
 
Response to the Notice Served: 
Interested Ash User(s) executing Road Projects / Flyover embankments / Dams / Mines / 
Shoreline Protection structures in coastal Districts / Low Lying (as per extant MoEF&CC  
Notification and policy), may submit their response in the prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3) 
to the Notice served. 
Total quantity of Pond Ash in MT tentatively available for issue, under this Notice, is as per the 
details given hereunder – 
 
Power Stations / Location Total Quantity 
offered Period of Supply 
NTPC BARH THERMAL POWER STATION, 
Address- Barh, District Patna,  
Bihar – 803215 
 
36.97 LMT 
From September’2026 to 
March’2027 
 
 
How to apply 
Interested Ash Users desirous of receiving Pond Ash from NTPC Barh as per the terms and 
conditions of this Notice, may submit their response, along with specified documents and duly 
filled in enclosed “Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to Notice” and “Part 3: Undertaking 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 3 of 14 
 
 
and Declaration by Ash User” to the E – Mail address audbarh@ntpc.co.in on or before 17:00 
hrs. of 31st AUGUST 2026. 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to Notice” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Ash User”: 
 
A: Documents to be submitted at the time of submission of response to Notice: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with 
documentary proof as applicable. 
6. Documents detailing the nature of the proposed Ash utilization being in line with the Extant 
Notification. 
7. Time period during which Ash supply is required. 
a. Start Date 
b. End Date 
B: Documents to be submitted by the Ash User(s) during the period of Ash supply: 
1. Daily Progress Report as per the specified format by Engineer In Charge (EIC) at NTPC 
Barh. 
2. Quantity Received Certificate on Periodic basis as agreed with Engineer In Charge (EIC) 
3. Affidavit for Actual Ash Utilization as per extant MoEF&CC Gazette Notification on Half 
Yearly basis in format prescribed by Engineer In Charge (EIC). 
4. Any other document as required by the Engineer In Charge (EIC). 
All documents submitted shall be duly self -certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Response / Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not 
complete. 
 
 
Allocation of Pond Ash Quantity: 
Based on the receipt of responses to this Notice, Pond Ash shall be allocated to various Ash 
Users for qualified projects, keeping in view minimum cost implication to NTPC for transportation 
of Pond Ash, till the available offered quantity  is exhausted. Pond Ash shall be issued free of 
cost. 
In case the same Ash User gets some allocation against the last  Auction Process and / or EoI 
for free issue with transportation by Ash User and also against this Notice, then the Ash quantity 
allocated against this Notice shall be issued to that Ash User, only after the Ash User completes 
the lifting / drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process and / or EoI for free issue with 
transportation by Ash User as applicable. 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 4 of 14 
 
 
Daily allocation of Pond Ash shall be finalized by EIC depending upon site specific conditions 
and availability of Pond Ash at the Station on that particular day. The Pond ash shall be delivered 
to designated site / location as indicated in the requisition throu gh transporters appointed by 
NTPC for the purpose. Ash User shall ensure timely unloading of the Pond Ash at destination 
and release of vehicles in reasonable time. 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 5 of 14 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to Notice 
(On official letter head of the Ash User) 
(To be submitted by the Ash User along with specified documents) 
 
Notice for Issue of Pond Ash from NTPC BARH SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION. 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Ash User  
 
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm) 
 
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Nature of Business:  
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year 
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling Pond Ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 6 of 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
 
5 
 
 
Pond Ash quantity sought against Notice (both 
in Figures and Words): 
 
Figures: 
 
Words: 
6 Period of requirement Start Date: 
End Date: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond Ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No). 
 
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
 
 
8 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond Ash EoI for 
free issue with transportation by Ash User from 
same station (Yes/No). 
 
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
 
 
9 
 
Address of the location where Ash User 
proposes to receive Pond Ash if issued. 
(Chainage wise quantity requirement in case of 
road projects) 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the Ash User 
proposes to utilize the Pond Ash, if issued. 
 
SN 
 
Avenue Name 
 
Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total 
 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 7 of 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
Whether transportation cost will be shared? 
(Yes / No) 
 
 
If yes, then specify percentage to be shared by 
interested Ash User 
 
 
12 
This TPP is the closest to the Project being 
executed. (Yes / No) 
 
If No, name of the Thermal Power Plant (TPP) 
closest to the project: 
 
 
13 
 
Reason for not sourcing Pond Ash from closest 
project. 
 
 
 
 
14 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
15 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of   
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
Signature: 
(Authorized Representative) 
Name: 
Designation: 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 8 of 14 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Ash User. 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
UNDERTAKING 
 
I / We  (Name of the firm / individual) hereby 
certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the Notice requirements and accept 
all terms and conditions of the Notice including those contained in all corrigendum/addendum 
issued, if any. My / Our offer is in con formity with all the terms and conditions of the Notice 
including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the event of allocation of ash to me / us, the 
complete Notice document shall be considered as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution 
of Contract Agreement and also as and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / Semi – 
Government / Quasi - Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, nor have been 
convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of Pond Ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those regarding safety, 
environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill all applicable statutory 
requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the contract. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / Subsidiaries from 
any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – compliance of any applicable 
norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the course of execution and for future 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission by me / us or my / our representatives / 
agents. 
I / We hereby undertak e to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization Avenues as 
identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on Half Yearly basis, an 
affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes / Avenues as identified in extant 
MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and the deputed transportation agency / agencies in 
facilitating timely unloading of Pond Ash as per submitted schedule and in timely submission of 
details of measurement. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us against this Notice are true and 
authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that if at any stage, 
the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are liable for disqualification 
from this Notice and also liable for any other penal action that may arise due to the above. 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 9 of 14 
 
 
DECLARATION 
 
I / We declare that   (Name of TPP) is closest to the project being executed for 
which supply of Pond Ash is being sought. 
OR 
I / We declare that    TPP is closest to the project, however, supply of Ash has 
been denied from  TPP. 
 
Further, I / We understand that: 
1. This Notice by NTPC is not a commitment for Pond Ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of the 
response against this Notice. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, 
regardless of the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Allocation of Pond Ash to different Eligible Projects shall be done by TPP in compliance with 
extant MoEF&CC Notification and in a manner, which will have minimum financial implication on 
TPP, till the offered quantity gets exhausted. 
4. (Applicable for parties allocated Pond Ash through last auction / EoI process also from 
same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis through 
under this Notice, it shall be mandatory on my / our  part to collect all the Ash quantity allocated 
through last Auction process and / or EoI, then only quantity allocated against this Notice will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Name ……………………………… 
……………………………………… 
Place: ……………………. Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
Name of the Company: …….……. 
…………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
…………………………………….…. 
Company Seal: …..………………… 
Annexure- C 
(For Pond Ash Circular) 
Page 10 of 14 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1.  Pond Ash shall be issued from the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / Pond(s) or 
other location as decided by EIC to the Ash Users (or their authori zed 
representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering Operational 
and Safety issues of Ash dyke. 
2. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Ash Users and 
verifiable by TPP. 
3. Interested Ash User shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines etc and 
carry out their activities in full compliance with the same. 
4. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from TPP. 
5. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule the lifting 
of Ash from Designated storage area by different agencies, which shall be binding 
upon the agencies. The schedules and deployment may be worked out / altered 
based on periodic meetings between concerned stakeholders. 
6. On allocation of Pond Ash against this Notice, Successful Ash Users shall submit 
affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of requisite value, certifying the complete 
Utilization of issued Pond Ash, in adherence with the provisions of the extant 
Notification and other applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed 
format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
7. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non-compliance of 
any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, Guidelines and Statutory 
provisions by the Ash User or its representative / agent, during the course of 
execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the 
Ash User shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An indemnity 
bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of Pond Ash. 
8. Interested and eligible Ash Users executing Project shall have to submit tentative 
time schedule of the project along with Request. 
9. Interested and eligible Ash User shall have to submit End User Certificate for 
utilization of supplied Pond Ash. 
10. All Eligible Projects shall source Pond Ash from Thermal Power Plants (TPPs) 
closest to their Project. Allocation of Pond Ash by TPP shall be in compliance with 
the same. 
11. It shall also be the responsibility of the Ash User(s) to ensure that the Ash sent from 
the TPP is facilitated for quick unloading and release of vehicle. 
12. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 