NTPC Limited eProcurement Portal
Tender Details
Date : 28-Aug-2026 09:33 PM
 Print
Basic Details
Organisation Chain Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited||Patratu Super Thermal Power Project
Tender Reference
Number PVUNL/Patratu/9900331962
Tender ID 2026_PVUNL_111349_1 Withdrawal Allowed Yes
Tender Type Open Tender Form of contract Works
Tender Category Works No. of Covers 3
General Technical
Evaluation Allowed Yes [Compliance Required] ItemWise Technical Evaluation
Allowed No
Payment Mode Offline Is Multi Currency Allowed For
BOQ No
Is Multi Currency
Allowed For Fee No Allow Two Stage Bidding No
 
Payment Instruments
Offline S.No Instrument Type
1 DD
2 BG
Cover Details, No. Of Covers - 3
Cover
No Cover Document Type Description
1 Fee .pdf
EMD submission
Proof (EFT Transfer
Rct or BG with SFMS)
2 PreQual/Technical .pdf
Appendix B or C to
Attachment-3A1
(with Work Order and
Completion/Execution
certificates)
.pdf
Attachment 3A-2,
Financial Statements
with UDIN and
CEO/CFO Certificate
(if applicable)
.pdf
POA/Authorization for
Bid, Company
Details/COI, PF, PAN,
GSTN etc., NTPC
Vendor Code (if
available)
.pdf
Any other
document/declaration
(As applicable and
asked in the Bid
Docs)
.pdf
Attachment 3A-1
(Declaration filled in
all respects)
3 Finance .xls
Price Bid (Including
GST). Nil deviation to
be recorded through
GTE.
 
Tender Fee Details, [Total Fee in ₹ * - 0.00]
Tender Fee in ₹ 0.00
Fee Payable To Nil Fee Payable At Nil
Tender Fee
Exemption Allowed
No
EMD Fee Details
EMD Amount in ₹ 2,00,000 EMD Exemption
Allowed
No
EMD Fee Type fixed EMD Percentage NA
EMD Payable To Patratu
Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam
Limited
EMD Payable At Patratu
BG Required No
Minimum Direct
EMD Payment in ₹
0.00

 
 
Work /Item(s)
Title Construction of 5 nos. Toilet Block and 1 rest room for round the clock
Work Description Construction of 5 nos. Toilet Block and 1 rest room for round the clockoperation of workers at different locations
of inside plant area,including the electrification works in PVUNL, Patratu.
Pre Qualification
Details
As per tender documents 
Independent External
Monitor/Remarks
NA 
Tender Value in ₹ NA Product Category Miscellaneous
Works
Sub category NA 
Contract Type Tender Bid Validity(Days) 180 Period Of Work(Days) 240 
Location Patratu Vidyut Utpadan
Nigam PATRATU UTILITY
BUILD
Pincode 829119 Pre Bid Meeting Place NA 
Pre Bid Meeting
Address
NA Pre Bid Meeting Date NA Bid Opening Place Patratu Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam
Should Allow NDA
Tender
No Allow Preferential
Bidder
No
 
Critical Dates
Publish Date 28-Aug-2026 04:00 PM Bid Opening Date 21-Sep-2026 11:00 AM
Document Download / Sale Start
Date
28-Aug-2026 04:00 PM Document Download / Sale End
Date
19-Sep-2026 11:00 AM
Clarification Start Date 28-Aug-2026 04:00 PM Clarification End Date 07-Sep-2026 12:00 PM 
Bid Submission Start Date 28-Aug-2026 04:00 PM Bid Submission End Date 19-Sep-2026 11:00 AM
 
 
Tender Documents
NIT
Document S.No Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tendernotice_1.pdf NIT 491.32
 
Work Item
Documents S.No Document Type Document Name Description Document Size
(in KB)
1 Tender Documents SecVISOWSpecsDrawingsFQPetc.rar Sec VI-SOW, STC, Drawings,
FQP etc 23539.63
2 Tender Documents TenderDocs.rar Tender Documents 15068.26
3 BOQ BOQ_114579.xls BOQ 407.00
 
 
View GTE Details - SERVICE GTE (OT- SINGLE STAGE-MLC-LAND BORDER CLAUSE)
S.No Particulars Description Expected
Value Mandatory
1.0
Confirm that you are a LOCAL SUPPLIER, and the
LOCAL CONTENT included in the PACKAGE FOR
COMPLETE SCOPE OF WORK meets the MINIMUM
LOCAL CONTENT requirements of the Tender.
MLC DECLARATION FOR SERVICES Yes Yes
2.0 Do you accept NTPC Safety Rules SAFETY RULES COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
3.0 Do you accept the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC FRAUD PREVENTION Yes Yes
4.0 Do you accept Withholding and Banning of Business
Dealing Policy of NTPC BANNING POLICY DECLARATION Yes Yes
5.0
Do you certify full compliance on clause as per
tender documents on Restrictions on procurement
from a Bidder of a country which shares a land
border with India
LAND BORDER CLAUSE COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
6.0 Do you certify full compliance on Qualifying
Requirements QR COMPLIANCE Yes Yes
7.0 Do you certify full compliance to all provisions of Bid
documents NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATION Yes Yes
 
 
Tender Inviting Authority
Name AGM CnM
Address Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam PATRATU UTILITY BUILDING, PO JHARKHAND 829119
 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
 
Section I  
 
(DOMESTIC COMPETITIVE BIDDING) 
 
FOR 
Construction of 5 nos. Toilet Block and 1 rest room for round the clock operation of 
workers at different locations of (inside) plant area, including the electrification works 
in PVUNL Stage-I, Patratu (3 x 800MW). 
NIT No.:   9900331962 
NOTE: Bidders may please note that GePNIC is capturing and showing the IP addresses 
used by the Buyer and the Bidder(s) /Seller(s). The received bids having 
matching/common IP address with either Bidder(s)/Seller(s) or Buyer, shall be 
outrightly rejected & shall not be considered for further evaluation.  
 
                          
1.0 PVUNL invites online bids  on “ Single Stage  Two Envelope Bidding basis ” (Envelope-I: Fee & 
Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope -II: Price Bid) from eligible bidders for aforesaid package-for 
PVUNL Patratu, as per the scope of work briefly mentioned hereinafter. 
 
2.0 BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The scope of work comprises of the activities and services mentioned in scope of work and as per 
“Technical Specification/BOQ” for “Construction of 5 nos. Toilet Block and 1 rest room for round 
the clock operation of workers at different locations of (inside) plant area, including the 
electrification works in PVUNL Stage-I, Patratu (3 x 800MW).” 
Detailed Specifications and Scope of Work are enclosed separately (Sec-VI). 
PVUN intends to finance the subject Package through Internal Resources. 
3.0 Detailed Specification, Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions are given in the  Bidding Documents, 
which are available for examination and Sale at our eProcurement Portal  
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app) under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 
Limited and as per the following schedule:  
 
Form of Contract/Tender Category WORKS CONTRACT 
Contract Period 8 Months 
NIT Date As per e-tender portal 
Document sale Commencement Date As per e-tender portal 
Last date for receipt of queries from bidders (if any) As per e-tender portal 
Last Date & time for Bid submission  As per e-tender portal 
Technical Bid Opening Date & Time As per e-tender portal 
Price bid Opening Date & time Shall be intimated separately. 
Pre-Bid Conference Date & Time (if any) Not Applicable 
Reverse Auction  Not Applicable 
Tender Fee Not Applicable  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMD/Bid Security INR 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh) 
(Being Works Contract, EMD 
Exemption NOT Applicable) 
Integrity Pact Not Applicable 
MSE Benefit Being Works Contract, MSE 
Benefits are Not Applicable 
 No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, s hall be entertained by the Employer beyond 
the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as specified on e-
tender portal. 
Corrigendum (if any) shall be available on our e-tender website https://eprocurentpc.nic.in only. 
  
4.0 Bidder has to ensure the following documents to be submitted online, pursuant to ITB Clause 15, 
failing which bid is liable for rejection 
 
a)      Tender Fee: Not Applicable  
b) Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security: The Bi dder shall furnish, as a part of his Bid an Earnest 
Money Deposit/Bid Security of amount Rs 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two Lakh only) 
c)      Integrity Pact: Not Applicable 
 Any bid not accompanied by Bid security (EFT Transfer or BG) shall be rejected by the 
Employer as being non-responsive and shall be rejected without being opened. 
 Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a Separate sealed envelope (only 
in case where bid security is submitted through BG) shall be rejected by the employer as 
being non-responsive and shall not be opened. In case, the bid Security is submitted through 
electronic fund transfer (EFT)/online payment, Bidder to submit the proof of e -payment of bid 
security either in separate sealed envelope or in the e -tendering portal.  All bids must be 
accompanied by Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding documents. 
 Option for Online payment of EMD is not enabled at Ge PNIC/e tender portal  for 
PVUNL. System will show offline payment options as DD. However, EFT can be done to 
PVUNL account (detailed below) and details can be uploaded in GEPNIC Portal . EFT 
Tx No can be entered as DD Number.  
 
 For EMD through EFT Transfer to PVUN Account,  the payment shall be made in the SBI 
Account of Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd: Details are as follows:  
 
 
  
Name of Account Holder : PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LTD  
Bank Account No.              : 35397838621  
Bank Name                         : STATE BANK OF INDIA   
Branch                                 :  PATRATU (Branch Code: 02992),  
Bank Address                     :  PATRATU THERMAL POWER STATION PATRATU,   
                                              DIST: RAMGARH, JHARKHAND, PIN-829119.                          
IFSC Code                      :  SBIN0002992  
 Note: Option for Online payment of EMD is not enabled at GePNIC/e tender portal for 
PVUNL. System will show offline payment options as DD. However, EFT can be done to 
PVUNL account (detailed above) and details can be uploaded in GEPNIC Portal. EFT 
Tx No can be entered as DD Number. 
 If EMD is submitted in form of BG, BG should be valid for 45 days beyond expiry (180 
Days) of the validity of bid, i.e. 225 days from the end date/deadline for submission of 
bid. 
 EMD BG shall be in favor of “PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED” and 
shall be dispatched to Address for Communication detailed below (Clause 16). 
 For details, please refer to Clause 7 & 11 of Section II Bid Data Sheets (BDS). 
 Bid Security/EMD may be paid only through online payment of bid security amount applicable 
for this ten der OR through Bank Guarantee of appropriate value in accordance with the 
tender provisions. 
 Bidders who wish to submit bank guarantee MUST upload the scanned copy of bank 
guarantee and also ensure that original physical copy of the bank guarantee reaches at the 
address mentioned above before the submission deadline as per tender provisions. 
 
A complete set of Bidding Document may be downloaded by any interested Bidder from 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app. Prospective bidders are compulsorily required to provide 
GSTIN number with Tender Fee.  
 
 
5.0 QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR BIDDERS. 
 
5.0 Technical Criteria 
 
5.1 The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying requirements 
stipulated here under: 
 
5.1.1 The bidder should have successfully executed the Construction of Residential/ Public/ 
Industrial Building work within preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of Techno -
Commercial bid opening in any of the following manner: 
 
 At least one work order having a value not less than Rs. 172.25/- Lakhs 
                                                                                         OR 
 At least two work orders, each having a value not less than Rs. 107.66/- Lakhs 
                                                                                          OR 
 At least three work orders, each having a value not less than Rs. 86.13/- Lakhs 
Notes for clause 5.1.1 above: 
 
(a) The word “executed” mentioned in clause 5.1.1 means that the bidder sh ould have achieved the 
specified criteria with any of the following conditions: 
i) The work order is started earlier to the stipulated period, but completed within the stipulated 
period. In such cases, entire executed quantity and value of the relevant work v ide that 
work order shall be considered for evaluation. 
ii) The work order is started and completed within the stipulated period. In such cases, entire 
executed quantity and value of the relevant work vide that work order shall be considered 
for evaluation. 
iii) The work order is started within the stipulated period but not completed as on the last date of 
stipulated period. In such cases, “In Progress” executed quantity and value of the relevant 
work vide that work order as on the last date of the stipulated period, shall be considered 
for evaluation. 
(b) The Bidder shall also be considered qualified in case the award for reference work has been 
received by the bidder either directly from owner of plant or intermediary organization from 
which it has received the order. However, certificate/ documentary evidence from such owner of 
plant or the intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the bidder along with 
its bid in support of its claim of meeting the qualification requirement as per Clause  5.1.1 with 
any of the conditions mentioned in Notes (a) above. 
 
(c) For arriving at the executed value of work specified above, basic amount only shall be considered. 
In case of contract is inclusive of taxes, bidder should provide the break –up of basic value and 
taxes 
 
5.2 Financial Criteria: 
 
5.2.1 The average annual turnover of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial years as on the last date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening should not be less than Rs. 215.32 Lakhs (Indian Rupees Two Hundred 
Fifteen lakh and thirty-two thousand rupees only). 
 
5.2.2 In case a Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its own, its Holding 
Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as above, provided that the Net 
Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more 
than the paid -up share capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to 
furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported 
by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the Techno Commercial bid 
documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Cont ract by the 
Bidder in case of award.  
 
5.2.3 The Net Worth of the Bidder as on the last day of the preceding financial year, of the date of 
Techno-commercial Bid opening, shall not be less than 100% of the bidders paid up share capital. In 
case the Bidder meets the requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary (ies) 
and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiary (ies) of the Holding company wherever applicable, the 
Net Worth of the bidder and its Subsidiary (ies) and/or Holding company and/or S ubsidiary (ies) of 
the Holding company, in combined manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up share 
capital. However individually, their Net Worth should not be less than 75% of their respective paid -
up share capitals. Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = [(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)] x 100 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual net worth which should not be less than 75 % of the respective 
paid-up share capitals and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid up share capitals. 
 
5.2.4 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand -alone entity basis, the un -
audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered acceptable provided the bidder 
further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its qualification: 
 
 i) Copies of the un -audited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies of the audited 
consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. 
  
 ii) A certificat e from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in the bidding 
documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form part of the consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening are 
not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall also be considered 
acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Cer tificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant 
certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certific ate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial 
results of the Company are under audit as on the date of Techno -Commercial bid opening and the Certificate 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 Notes for Financial Criteria: 
 
(i) Net worth means the sum total of the paid -up share capital and free reserves. Free reserves means 
all reserves credited out of the profits and share premiu m account but does not include reserves 
credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. 
Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
(ii) Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
 
 (iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act of India. 
 
(iv) For Turnover indicated in foreign currency, the exchange rate as on seven (07) days prior to the 
date of techno- commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
 
6 ‘Class-I local suppliers’ / “Class-I local suppliers and Class -II local suppliers ’’ only  are 
eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in the bidding documents  / Public Procurement 
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by 
DPIIT. The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions  of bidding documents in 
this regard before submission of their bids." 
 
NOTE: 
 
Bidders are requested to give acceptance of being Class-I Local Supplier  (Minimum Local 
Content equal to or more than 90%) by accepting the GTE & declaration in Bid Form. 
 
By accepting the MLC provision of GTE, it will be considered that: - 
 
“Bidder is 'Class -I local supplier’ and is meeting the MLC requirement stipulated in  
Annexure-I to BDS. 
 
Also supplier has not been debarred / banned by any other procuring entity for violati on of 
‘Public Procurement (Preference to Make In India), Order 2017’ (PPP -MII Order) dated  
15.06.2017 and its subsequent revisions / amendments issued by Department for Promotion  
of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT)’’. 
 
In case  of false declaration in re spect of Local content, same shall be treated as false 
declaration and will be dealt in line with the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC. 
 
The bidders may apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard  
before submission of their bids. 
 
7 Any ‘Bidder from a country which  shares a land  border with India’, as specified  in the  Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the  Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
Further, any bidder (including bidder from India) having specified Transfer of Technology (ToT) 
arrangement with an entity from a country which shares a land border with India, will be eligible to 
bid only if the bidder is registered with the same competent authority. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries  (even if 
sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended  lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
8 PVUNL reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel / withdraw the Invitation for Bids /NIT 
without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending bidder shall have 
any claim arising out of such action. 
 
9 Issuance of bid documents to any Bidder shall not construe that such bidder is considered to be 
qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address given below in the presence of 
Bidder’s representatives who choose to attend the bid opening.  
 
10 PVUNL reserves the right to amend any bid/tender conditions through appropriate CORRIGENDUMS 
published in the portal AT ANY TIME. PVUNL also reserves the right to extend/change the bidding schedule 
through publishing necessary CORRIGENDUMS in t he portal if the situation demands so AT ANY TIME. 
The corrigendum as decided by PVUNL and deemed fit would be published in the portal as per provisions 
therein. This prevails over the relevant  provisions elsewhere in  the bid document . The 
corrigendum/amendment as published/posted in the portal will be binding on Bidders and it will be assumed 
that the information contained therein will have been taken into account by the Bidder in its bid. Bidders are 
advised to regularly check the tender regarding posting of Amendments/Corrigendum, if any. 
 
11 Transfer of Bidding Documents purchased by one intending Bidder to another is not permissible.  
 
12 The bid documents consist of the following: 
 
Section 
I Invitation for Bids (IFB)/ Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 
II Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
III Bid Data Sheet (BDS) 
IV General Conditions of Contract (GCC) 
V Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) 
VI Scope of Work/Supply & Services, Special Terms, Technical 
Specifications, Drawings, Quality Plans etc  
VII BOQ (enclosed separately as .xls file) 
 
VIII Forms and Procedures & Attachment-3 (Most Important- Verified 
Credentials & Details sought from bidders for meeting QR). 
 
 
 
 
13 IMPORTANT NOTES: 
a) Attachment 3 - QR DATA SHEET (ATTACHED separately for the package as bid document) 
is to be filled up properly for the stipulated QR parameters and to be submitted in the bid at 
appropriate file/folder provided for the purpose. 
 
b) LATEST PROVISIONS FOR “AUTHENTICATION OF VERACITY OF DOCUMENTS 
SUBMITTED BY THE BIDDER IN SUPPORT OF QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT” HAS 
BEEN INCORPOR ATED IN CLAUSE NO 7 OF BID DATA SHEET (SECTION III -BDS). 
AUTHENTICATED DOCUMENTS (AS APPLICABLE- FROM INDEPENDENT STATUTORY 
AUDITOR OF BIDDER/ OR SPECIFIED THIRD -PARTY INSPECTION AGENCY (TPIA)) IN 
LINE WITH THE SAID PROVISIONS TO BE COMPLIED. 
 
b) UDIN: Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L Account 
(wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry 
Unique Document Identification Number (UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of 
Council of Institute  of Chartered  Accountant of India (ICAI). It is  mandatory to mention UDIN 
(Unique Document Identification Number) by the bidders while submitting audited financial 
statements, other CA certificates etc. w.e.f. date as mentioned in ICAI gazette notification dt. 
02.08.2019. 
c) The bid specific data for the package AS MENTIONED IN Bid Data Sheet (Section III - BDS) 
shall amend and/ or supplement the provisions in the Instructions to Bidders (Section II - ITB). 
Wherever there is a conflict, the provisions BDS shall prevail over those in the ITB. 
 
d) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC), Section -V, shall supplement/ amend the General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC) Section -IV of Standard Bidding Document, wherever there is a 
conflict, the provisions in SCC shall prevail over those in the GCC of Standard Bidding Document. 
 
 
14. The bidding document is available online . A complete set of Bidding Doc uments may be 
downloaded by any interested Bidder from the NTPC tender website
 https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. 
under the organization named Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited . The Bidder would be 
required to register on the website. 
First time users are required to register themselves on NTPC tender website 
(https://eprocurentpc.nic.in) after filling up the required details. Note that 1 st time bidders 
can participate in PVUNL Open Tenders without having NTPC/PVUNL’s Vendor Code. 
Note: No Hard Copy of bidding documents shall be issued. 
However, users whose email address has not been linked to a vendor code allotted by 
NTPC/PVUNL/first time users not having been allott ed any vendor code by 
NTPC/PVUNL, should send a copy of the registration details to the e -mail address 
specified in this NIT under Address for Communication with following details at least 
three working days prior to Technical Opening Date: 
 
a) Request in the letter head of the Company. 
b) Copy of Registration Certificate/Certificate of Incorporation (as applicable) 
c) Address Proof 
d) Copy of GST Registration Certificate & PAN Card, 
e) Email ID and Contact No. 
f) Name and Designation of the contact person. 
g) Cancelled cheque & E.F.T form duly verified by bank. 
The above details shall be mandatory for EMD regularization/reconciliation and subsequent 
refund/conversion (as/if applicable).  
 
15  All references to the “Policy for Withholding & Banning of Business Dealings” appearing 
anywhere in the Standard Bidding Documents shall be replaced with “Policy for Debarment from 
Business Dealings”. 
 
16 Address for communication (Physical Document (if any) are to be sent to Address for 
Communication): 
 
AGM (C&M), 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED, 
P.O - PTPS, Distt: Ramgarh, Jharkhand 
PIN - 829119, 
Mobile: 9416212745/9471002992 
Emails: sudebhalder@ntpc.co.in/ ajaypal@ntpc.co.in 
 
Websites: https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.pvunl.co.in 
or www.ntpc.co.in 
 
 
17 Registered Office 
PATRATU VIDYUT UTPADAN NIGAM LIMITED 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,  
7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,  
New Delhi – 110003 
Corporate Identification Number: U40300DL2015GOI286533 
Website: www.pvunl.co.in 
Digitally signed by AJAY PAL
Date: 2026.08.28 11:56:25 IST
Location: NTPC Limited eProcurement
Portal
Signature Not Verified