NTPC LTD 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS
1 CEG No. BMD-26 
2 Brief description of 
CEG
Post Operational Chemical Cleaning of Boiler.
3 Responsibility Centre VEC 
4 Brief scope of work The scope includes the following: 
1.The vendor has to submit the detailed procedure for chemical cleaning,
however as per NTPC –R&D (NETRA) the following guidelines may be used.
01.Alkali Boil out, 
02. Super heater filling and pressurization, 
03.water washing (cold & hot rinse), 
04.Alkaline copper removal employing citric acid & potassium bromate, 
05.Inhibited Hydrochloric Acid pickling (employing Ammoniu m
bifluoride & thiourea) for removal of Iron oxides & Cu deposits , 
06. DM water rinse , 
07. Citric acid rinse, 
08.DM rinse, Soda ash Neutralization 
09. One/ two stage Passivation. 
The procedure for chemical cleaning shall be jointly discussed by NTPC -
OS , NTPC-R&D (NETRA), NTPC-Station/Project with the Vendor &
Vendor shall have to carry out the chemical cleaning as per mutuall y
agreed procedure. 
2. The successful bidder has to carry out the following: 
a) Associate with NTPC for testing of inhibitor and chemicals at NTPC lab. 
b) The chemical cleaning, handling of chemicals (Loading ,Unloading an d
transfer ) and chemical control by setting local lab., during the process. 
c) Carrying out the laboratory testing during chemical cleaning. For thi s
bidder has to provide a dedicated and qualified team round the clock. 
d) Design, Supply, erection & supervision of the erection of temporar y
pipelines and pumps hydro test of all the temporary pipelines as per
requirement and dismantling the same after chemical cleaning.(All temporar y
pilings shall be erected and tested properly as per procedure includin g
providing supports wherever required.) 
e) Neutralization of the spent acid & other chemicals: all effluents generate d
as a result of chemical cleaning shall be first brought to neutralization pit o f
WTP for proper neutralization before disposal. 
f) Design and provision of orifices and plugs for down comers and supe r
heaters tubes, fixing and dismantling them. 
g) Design and providing of the following. 
- Solution preparation tank(s) of appropriate capacity. 
- Temporary piping of different sizes required for chemical cleaning and 
Neutralisation 
- Valves of different sizes. 
- Suitable motors, starters, isolators and instrumentation. 
- Orifices and plugs for down comers and super heaters ( if applicable). 
- Nitrogen purging system. 
- Suitable pumps with sufficient standby / backup for chemical cleaning and 
Handling/transfer. 
3. The successful bidder has to arrange Supervisory Staff and Fabrication crew
as required for the site, to complete the job as per schedule. 
4. The successful bidder has to take the following Safety precautions: 
- During chemical cleaning all safety aspects will be adhered to in handling 
hazardous chemicals, safety appliances as deemed fit should be provided. 
- For uninterrupted chemical cleaning, provision of back up power supply. 
- Safety of all men and materials engaged in boiler chemical cleaning. 
- A Safety supervisor had to be arranged round the clock for ensuring safety 
during work execution. 
5. After 1 ST stage passivation, water touched surfaces to be inspected jointl y
for removal of deposits. Loose deposits if any in the boiler drum shall have t o
be removed manually. Orifices & plugs, temporary connections if any to b e
removed, drum internals to be retrofitted. 
6. Minimum two no. of tube samples from high heat flux zone to be take n
out to evaluate & asses the efficiency of chemical cleaning. 
7. Association during last stage of passivation till final synchronization o f
the unit 
In addition to above, the following will also constitute the scope of work of
the agency/ Vendor 
1.Transportation from their site to the NTPC site and back to their site th e
mixing tank, circulating pumps, required no. of valves of various sizes an d
diameters, headers, pipelines and steam header for cleaning and neutralization.
2. Mobilization of required no. of trained and experienced staff of various 
categories for the execution of the work in smooth manner. 
3. Necessary electrical equipment such as control panel, starters and cables for 
the motors of circulation pumps and acid transfer pumps. 
4. Design, Supply and installation & removal of super heater plugs and orifice 
plates for the down comers. 
5.High pressure gas regulating valve header assembly for connecting Nitrogen 
Cylinders. 
6. Execution of complete process including detail Engineering and monitoring
the process with NTPC laboratory up to passivation. 
7. Manual cleaning of loose debris and other impurities from the drum after its 
opening for inspection. 
8. Necessary Fabrication & Erection (Including consumables) of temporar y
chemical cleaning circuit with main boiler. 
9. Temporary piping required for D.M water supply, compressed air supply ,
acid unloading and transfer shall be arranged and erected and removal afte r
completion of job ,by the agency. 
NTPC’S SCOPE 
1. Arrangement for alkali boil out shall be done by NTPC. However, 
procedure for same shall be given by the agency. 
2. All the chemicals & gases required for the chemical cleaning or as 
specified in the Tender. 
3. Mobile crane/ hydra facility shall be provided free of charge for loading and 
unloading of materials. 
4.. All drum internals Removal before starting the job and reaffixing after 
completion of job will be carried out by NTPC. 
5.. Necessary cutting and re welding IBR connections of bottom header stubs 
and drainpipes will be done by NTPC. 
6.Cutting and welding of high-pressure tubes, hand holes attached to boiler. 
7.Adequate storage facilities for Chemicals and equipment in a closed room to 
protect them from rain fall till the completion of the job. 
8.Adequate power supply, service water, auxiliary steam and DM water will 
be provided by NTPC on free of cost including emergency power supply ( 600 
KW/415V/50Hz/3 Phase AC Power supply to agency/Vendor’s MCC Panel. 
9.Providing Effluent neutralization pit 2000 M3 with acid proof lining nearest 
to the boiler within 200 meters. 
10. Intermediate operation of BCP during chemical cleaning. 
11.Fire tender, Ambulance and Illumination facility at Chemical cleaning area.
12. Boiler tube analysis’ before and after chemical cleaning 
  13. Repairing of boiler pressure parts in case of tube failure during chemica l
cleaning 
14. Arrangement of Aux. Steam for acid cleaning procedure. 
NOTES: 
All exclusion in scope of supply & execution of the job in totality shall b e
brought out in advance to facilitate smooth, uninterrupted & as per procedur e
chemical cleaning process. 
Other details shall be given in subsequent tender document.
5. Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
The Applicant must have executed the work of chemical cleaning of at least 
one no. of 500 MW or above Boiler during last five years from the date of 
application. 
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support of meeting 
QR 
Relevant PO copy & Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/Final 
Deviation Statement and other documents mentioned elsewhere 
NTPC LTD 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS
CEG No. BMD-26 
6 Additional 
Documents to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical 
Qualifying Requirements as stated above, following documents are required to 
be submitted by the Applicants applying for enlistment:- 
i. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work during 
previous five years from the date of application and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the concerned client in 
support of successful execution of work against each of the POs to be
submitted. 
ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous 
three completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In 
case, the audited documents are not ready/available, then certified copy of  
financial statement by a registered practicing chartered accountant may be 
submitted. 
iii. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate 
iv. PF and GST/Service Tax registration certificate 
v. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants 
to submit. 
7 NOTES: 1.0 Similar work means: Work of chemical cleaning of Boiler of 500 MW o r
above. 
2.0 Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. 
including Service taxes etc.), the applicant has to give break-up of composite PO 
value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Executed value of contracts shall 
include escalation amount because of price adjustment, if any, in the contract. 