(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 1 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
 
NTPC Limited 
 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
FOR 
 
IDENTIFICATION OF VENDORS  
 
 
FOR DESIGN, ENGINEERING, MANUFACTURING, SUPPLY, ERECTION, 
TESTING & COMMISSIONING 
 
OF 
 
250 MW SUB-CRITICAL THERMAL POWER UNITS ON EPC BASIS 
SUITABLE FOR FLEXIBLE OPERATION INCLUDING TWO-SHIFT 
OPERATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
 
DETAILED NOTICE INVITING EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
EOI No.: NTPC/EPC/EOI/SUB-CR-250/2026     Date: 30.08.2026  
 
 
NTPC is Inviting an Expression of Interest for “Identification of Vendors for Design, 
Engineering, Manufacturing, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning of Sub-
Critical Thermal Power Units on EPC basis, suitable for Two shift operation & Technical 
Minimum Load (TML) as 40% with an option to optimize for 30% & 25% TML. 
 
1.0 Objective: 
(i) NTPC Ltd intends to set-up Sub-critical units in configuration of 1x250 MW, 
2x250 MW and 3x250 MW at few NTPC stations. In this regard, NTPC invites 
Expression of Interest from entities in India for Design, Engineering, 
Manufacturing, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning of coal fired 
(including biomass co-firing) sub-critical thermal power units on EPC basis, 
suitable for two shift operation & Technical Minimum Load (TML) as 40% with 
an option to optimize for 30% & 25% TML. This EOI is to identify such 
interested vendors who have adequate expertise & experience in Design, 
Engineering, Manufacturing, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning 
of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units meeting the qualifying requirements 
specified at Annexure-B. 
(ii) Based on EOI response, NTPC will prepare a database of such capable vendors 
and may explore the possibility of utilizing the services for design, engineering, 
procurement & construction of such thermal power units through subsequent 
open tendering process.  
(iii) Ascertaining capabilities of vendors w.r.t. their Design, Engineering, 
manufacturing, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning towards providing 
such sub-critical thermal power units having two shift operation  & TML 
capabilities. 
(iv) As per NTPC decision & based on the EOI response, detailed discussions may 
be done with the applicants towards narrowing down on the ‘technical and 
commercial’ aspects. 
(v) NTPC may finalise the modalities for issuance of the tender for setting up of 
these units based on the responses received against the EOI. However, 
issuance of this EOI shall not be construed as a commitment by NTPC to 
proceed with tendering process. NTPC reserves the sole and absolute right to 
decide whether or not to proceed with the tendering process, and its decision in 
this regard shall be final and binding on all applicants. 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 3 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
2.0 DOWNLOAD AND TIMELINES FOR SUBMISSION OF EOI 
 
1. Interested APPLICANTs may download the documents of EOI free of cost from 
www.ntpctender.com & https://eprocurentpc.nic.in 
 
2. Last date for EOI submission:  30.09.2026. 
 
3.0 NTPC encourages submission of EOI in soft copy. For consideration of EOI, Applicants 
are required to e-mail softcopy, completed in all respect, from its official e-mail ID to 
below mentioned e-mail IDs. If applicants also wish to submit hard copy of the EOI, the 
same can be submitted either in person or by registered/ speed post till the last date of 
submission of EOI to the following address: - 
 
To:  
1. AGM (PE-Mechanical/TG & Sys) 
  Email: pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
2. Deputy General Manager (PE-Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries) 
  Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
  
 Project Engineering (Mechanical) 
 NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
4.0 NTPC reserves the right to reject or accept any or all applications, cancel/withdraw the 
EOI process without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case, applicant shall 
not have any claim arising out of such action. NTPC bears no responsibility or liability 
of any kind in reference to the EOI. 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 4 of 60                                                                                                      
 
SECTION-I 
 
INFORMATION TO APPLICANT 
 
1. NTPC Limited is a Govt. of India Enterprise. NTPC group produces electricity through 
its cluster of gas, coal, hydro and RE based power stations of more than 91 GW 
capacity spanning across the country. 
 
2. INTENT OF THE EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
 
NTPC Ltd intends to set-up Sub-critical units of 250 MW size at few of its power stations. 
The indicative thermal cycle parameters at turbine inlet will be as follows. 
 
a. Main steam pressure (kg/cm2 abs.) – 150 
b. Main steam temperature (deg C) – 537 
c. Reheat steam temperature (deg C) - 537 
 
 
This EOI is to identify interested vendors in India, for supply & installation of sub-critical 
thermal power units of 250 MW size on EPC basis offering enhanced efficiency, 
environmentally compliant performance and suitability for two shift operation  & 
Technical Minimum Load (TML) as 40% with an option to optimize for 30% & 25% TML 
to cater to the contemporary challenges posed by the operating regime. The applicant 
shall have proven experience, established technical capabilities, and sufficient 
organizational, financial, and execution capacities to meet the specified requirements.  
The brief scope of work is mentioned at Annexure-A and qualifying requirements for 
participation in the EOI are mentioned at Annexure-B. Further, Make in India 
requirements are also mentioned at Annexure-C. 
 
3. THE APPLICANTS SHOULD NOTE THAT: 
 
a. Language of the responses to EOI or any query/clarifications/correspondences 
shall be in English only. 
 
b. For expression of interest, the Application Form and Annexures given in Section-II 
shall be duly filled out and sent to NTPC by the applicant in a soft copy. 
 
c. Applicants should go through Section-I thoroughly before filling and submitting the 
application form, annexures and schedules in Section-II. 
 
d. Applicants shall mention the name and contact details of two people, with their 
complete address, phone number and official email id. 
 
e. NTPC Ltd. may, at its sole discretion, ask for additional information/ documents 
and/ or seek clarifications from the applicant(s) after the deadline for submission of 
response, inter alia, for the purpose of removal of inconsistencies or infirmities in 
their responses. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 5 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
f. Based on EOI response, NTPC will prepare a database of capable vendors for 
utilizing the services of design, engineering, procurement & construction of such 
thermal power units. 
 
g. Applicants  shall mandatorily furnish all essential information specified in the EOI, 
without any omission. 
 
h. This EOI is indicative only and non-committal. 
 
i. For the expression of interest, Applicant shall consider Coal and biomass 
characteristics as per the data provided in Appendix-‘Fuel Characteristics’. 
 
 
 
4. ENQUIRIES AND CLARIFICATIONS 
 
Any clarifications on the EOI may be sought to the following via email:  
 
 To: AGM (PE-Mechanical/TG & Sys) 
       Email: pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
       
      Deputy General Manager (PE-Mech/SG & Aux.) 
      Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
 
5. CORRIGENDUM 
 
At any time before the last date of submission of EOIs, NTPC may, for any reason, 
whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by an applicant, 
modify the EOI document. The amendment will be posted on the website and will be 
binding on all the applicants and the applicant will give due consideration to the same, 
while they submit their EOIs, and would invariably enclose documents/ information, as 
required, on account of the amendment, as a part of the EOI. NTPC may, at its 
discretion, extend the deadline for the submission of EOIs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 6 of 60                                                                                                      
 
6. SUBMISSION OF THE RESPONSE TO EOI 
 
The responses to the EOI are to be submitted in soft copy via below e-mail & format:  
To: pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
      vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
 
 
Ref. EOI No.  NTPC/EPC/EOI/SUB-CR-250/2026            Dated: ................. 
 
Submitted to: 
 
 To: AGM (PE-Mechanical/TG & Sys) 
       Email: pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in 
 
      Deputy General Manager (PE-Mechanical/SG & Auxiliaries) 
      Email: vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in 
 
      Project Engineering (Mechanical),  
      NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
Submitted by: 
  Name, address & contact no. of the Applicant 
 
All the pages of the response should be duly stamped and signed by the authorized 
signatory and the same should be reflected in the soft version also. 
 
The responses to the EOI should be submitted within the deadline as mentioned in this 
document.  
 
7. COSTS AND EXPENSES TOWARDS RESPONSE TO EOI 
 
The applicants shall bear all the costs associated with the complete process including 
preparation of the response and participation in discussions and finalization & execution 
of the documents related with this EOI, regardless of the conduct or outcome of this 
process. 
 
8. CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
The applicants undertake to hold in confidence this EOI and any document related or 
pursuant to this EOI and not to disclose the terms and conditions of the transaction 
contemplated hereby to third parties, except: 
 
(a) To their professional advisors. 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 7 of 60                                                                                                      
 
(b) To their officers, contractors, employees, agents or representatives, financers, who 
need to have access to such information for the proper performance of their activities 
towards this EOI. 
 
(c) Disclosures required under applicable Law, without the prior written consent of the 
other parties of the concerned agreements. 
Provided that the applicant(s) agrees and acknowledges that NTPC may, at any time, 
disclose the terms and conditions of this EOI and any document related or pursuant to 
this EOI to any person, to the extent stipulated under the applicable Law. 
 
 
 
 
 
×××× 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 8 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION-II 
APPLICATION FORM, ANNEXURES & SCHEDULES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 9 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
 
Annexure-1 
 
FORMAT FOR COVERING LETTER CUM UNDERTAKING 
(The covering letter should be on the Letter Head of the Applicant) 
  Date:     
Place:     
 
To, 
Pawan Krishan Dwivedi 
AGM (PE-Mechanical/TG&Sys) 
Project Engineering (Mechanical), 4th Floor 
NTPC Limited, SRHQ, NTPC Bhavan, 
Kavadiguda, Secunderabad-500080 
 
 
Subject: Identification of Vendors for Design, Engineering, Manufacturing, Supply, 
Erection, Testing & Commissioning of Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units on 
EPC basis, suitable for Two Shift Operation & Technical Minimum Load (TML) 
as 40% with an option to optimize for 30% & 25% TML. 
 
 
 
Ref.:  EOI No. NTPC/EPC/EOI/SUB-CR-250/2026,           dated............... 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
We, the undersigned ……. [insert name of the “Applicant”] having read, examined and 
understood in detail the (INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST). 
 
 
1. We give our unconditional acceptance to the EOI, issued by NTPC, as amended. In token 
of our acceptance to the EOI, the same have been signed & stamped by us and enclosed 
to the response. We hereby confirm that the provisions of the EOI shall be binding on us. 
 
2. We have submitted our response strictly as per the provisions and formats of the EOI, 
without any deviations, conditions and without mentioning any assumptions or notes. 
 
3. We hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agree and accept that the decision made by 
NTPC LTD. in respect of any matter regarding or arising out of the EOI shall be binding 
on us. We hereby expressly waive any and all claims in respect of the EOI process. We 
confirm that there are no litigations or disputes against us, which materially affect our 
ability to participate or function under the obligations with regard to the EOI.
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 10 of 60                                                                                                      
 
4. Details of the contact person are furnished as below: 
Name: 
Designation: 
Address: 
Contact numbers: 
Email Id: 
We are enclosing herewith the entire response containing duly signed formats in 
electronic format sent via email to pawandwivedi@ntpc.co.in and 
vivekbharti@ntpc.co.in as per the EOI for consideration. 
 
5. It is confirmed that our response is consistent with all the requirements of submission 
as stated in the EOI and subsequent communications from NTPC, if any. 
 
6. The information submitted in our response is complete, strictly as per the requirements 
stipulated in the EOI and is correct to the best of our knowledge and understanding. We 
would be solely responsible for any errors or omissions in our response. 
 
 
 
 
 
We remain, 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
(Name, Designation and Signature of Authorized Person) 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 11 of 60                                                                                                      
 
Annexure-A 
BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
PROJECT  : Sub-Critical Unit of 250 MW Size  
PACKAGE NAME : EPC PACKAGE  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The scope of work for the equipment and accessories to be furnished here shall include 
design, manufacture, engineering, inspection and testing at Contractor's work(s), packing, 
forwarding to site, unloading, in plant transportation, erection, supervision, pre-
commissioning, testing, commissioning and performance testing of the equipment/systems 
indicated hereunder. Items though not specifically mentioned here but needed to complete 
the equipment and systems, shall also be deemed to be included. 
  
A. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Brief scope of work for the subject EPC Package for Sub-Critical Unit of 250 MW Size is 
as follows ( Applicant to consider system inside pant boundary for cost estimation 
purpose): 
 
Design, Engineering, Manufacture, Supply, Construction, Erection, Testing & Commissioning  
works  for  the  EPC Package for Sub-Critical Unit of 250 MW Size, intended to be operated 
under cyclic operation and daily start-stop mode with Technical Minimum Load as 40% with 
an option to optimize 30% & 25% TML, on  the  basis of  single point  responsibility, 
completely covering the following activities and services in respect of Steam Generator and 
Auxiliaries, Electrostatic Precipitator, NOx Control Systems, Biomass co-firing capability, 
Steam  Turbine & Auxiliaries, Generator & Auxiliaries,   HP & LP Dosing Systems, Generator 
Bus ducts and associated equipments, ECW system for TG & SG including station auxiliaries, 
Condensate polishing plant (CPU), CST, CW system including equipment, Duct, IDCT & CW 
channel and associated civil works, Raw Water system and associated Electrical & civil 
works, Water treatment plant including LETP and associated civil works including Effluent 
quality Monitoring System(EQMS), Ash Handling & disposal System inside plant boundary, 
Coal and Biomass Handling Plant, Mill Reject Handling System, Fuel oil unloading system, 
Compressed Air System, Fire Detection & Protection System, Air Conditioning & Ventilation 
Systems, Power cycle & Station Piping, Power Transformers, HT Switchgears for complete 
plant facilities, Transformer Yard and associated controls & Instrumentation, LT indoor 
Transformer, MV Bus-duct, DC Batteries, Battery chargers, DG sets, LT switchgear & LT Bus 
Duct, Outdoor Transformers, Switchyard, HT & LT power cables, LT control cables, Lightning 
Protection, Lighting, Cabling, Earthing, all Control & Instrumentation(C&I) including 
Advanced Process Control (APC), Automatic Generation Control (AGC), complete simulator 
system,  Fireproof cable penetration sealing system, Pipe / Cable racks, Civil, Structural & 
Architectural works of Main Power House, Common Control Room, Chimney with elevator, 
earthing mat/ grounding for the Offsite areas, Miscellaneous Buildings and other civil works 
including Site Levelling, Roads & Drains, Boundary wall, Watch Towers, Safety Control room, 
Safety Park, underground facilities like drainage, sewerage, trenches, Packaged sewerage 
treatment plant, Rain Water Harvesting, Recommended Mandatory Spares, etc covered 
under the specifications: 
a. Basic Engineering of the plant. 
b. Detailed design of all the equipment and equipment system(s) including civil, structure 
steel & Architectural works. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 12 of 60                                                                                                      
 
c. Cyclic design features validation of these units. 
d. Engineering drawings, equipment sizing & performance data, instruction and O&M 
manuals, as built drawings and other information; 
e. Compliance with statutory requirements 
f. Complete manufacturing including shop testing/type testing; 
g. Complete Civil, structural and architectural works.  
h. Packing and transportation from the manufacturer’s works to the site including logistic 
studies, insurance, customs clearance & port clearance, port charges, if any. 
i. Receipt, storage, preservation, handling and conservation of equipment at the site; 
j. Fabrication, pre-assembly, if any, erection, insurance, testing, commissioning and 
completion of facilities including putting into satisfactory operation all the equipment 
including successful completion of initial operation; 
k. Performance and guarantee tests after successful completion of initial operation; 
l. Supply of recommended mandatory spares on FOR site basis; 
m. Reconciliation with Customs Authorities; 
n. Satisfactory conclusion of the Contract; 
o. Insurance and other requirements 
p. The plant shall be ZLD compliant 
q. Demonstration of two-shift, cyclic operation as specified for the period of 07 days 
during trial operation. 
 
B. SALIENT TECHNICAL FEATURES 
 
  
(i) The plant shall be suitable for load cycling which implies that it should be designed to 
operate continuously under two shift mode (daily start stop with one shift off) and load 
follow mode as specified. The design would cover adequate provision for quick startup 
and loading of the unit(s) to full load at a fast rate. Plant shall be capable of minimum 
N1 number of daily load cycles (N1 shall not be less than 2), load variation from 100% 
to 70 % (and vice versa) of MCR with a minimum ramp rate of 3% per minute and load 
variation from 70% to 55% (and vice versa) of MCR with a minimum ramp rate of 2% 
per minute, without affecting the design life of boiler and turbine-Generator systems. 
In addition to this, the plant shall also be capable of minimum N2 number of daily load 
cycles (N2 shall not be less than 1) from 55% to 40% of MCR load (and vice versa) 
with a minimum ramp rate of 1% per minute. The main plant and its auxiliaries with 
their controls would be designed to permit operation of the units on house load without 
there being any necessity to shut down the unit(s) in the event of sudden loss of total 
load due to tripping of transmission lines or any other grid disturbances. The design of 
the plant equipments and control system would permit participation of the plant in 
automatic load frequency control. During above demonstration, parameters shall be 
maintained within prescribed limits. 
 
To make unit capable of continuous two shifting operations, the number of hot start 
ups shall be increased from 4000 numbers specified elsewhere to 6700 numbers 
without changing cold and warm start up as well as daily N1 (minimum 13400 cycles 
in total design life) and N2 (minimum 6700 cycles in total design life) requirements as 
defined above. 
 
(ii) Unit Load Ramp rate capability test: The contractor shall demonstrate minimum ± 3% 
per minute ramp rate for 70% to 100% load range, minimum ± 2% per minute ramp 
rate for 55% to 70% load range and minimum ± 1% per minute below 55% load to 40% 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 13 of 60                                                                                                      
 
load, while maintaining the parameters within prescribed limits 
(iii) Unit shall be designed for 40% Technical Minimum Load (TML) with an option to 
optimize 30% & 25% TML without any oil support. 
 
1.00.00     Steam Generator  
1.01.00    Type 
 The Steam Generator shall be once through type or natural/ forced circulation drum type, 
single drum (for drum type boiler), single/ double pass (tower type/ two pass type), water 
tube, direct pulverized coal fired, top supported, balanced draft furnace, single reheat, 
radiant furnace, dry bottom type and shall be suitable for outdoor installation. 
 
1.02.00   Steam Generator & Auxiliaries and associated systems shall be designed for 40% Technical 
Minimum Load (TML) with an option to optimize for 30% and 25% TML.  
 
1.03.00  Other Features of Steam Generator Design 
 
 Steam Generator shall be designed for daily start-stop/ two-shift operation along with 
other unit requirements to give life of not less than 25 years. The steam generator and 
its auxiliaries shall be designed for firing Indian coal identified for the project. Steam 
generators shall also be capable of firing imported coal with up to 20% blending with 
domestic coal. 
 The Steam Generators shall be designed for variable pressure operation. Thermal 
design of Steam Generator and the selection of materials shall be suitable for variable 
pressure operational modes and cyclic operation and two-shift operation as specified. 
 The steam generator and its auxiliaries are envisaged to co-fire torrefied (20%)/ non-
torrefied (10%) biomass pellet along with coal on weight basis. 
 The Steam Generator evaporator shall be suitable for variable pressure operation and 
control range from 40%TMCR to 100% BMCR (the steam temperatures at SH & RH 
outlets shall be maintained at their rated values), with optimized pressure parts 
thickness, no. of headers, upgraded metallurgy, optimized fin geometry and low thermal 
inertia and capability to accommodate thermal expansion and differential expansion 
during transient and flexible operating regime.  
 The Steam Generator shall be capable of stable operation at a minimum load of not 
more than 30% TMCR without oil support for flame stabilization. 
 Steam Generator shall be provided with Low Pressure Economiser with necessary 
bypass provision, utilising turbine condensate with control stations to operate at both 
full & part load conditions. 
 Upgraded Drain systems shall be suitably enhanced to support cyclic operation, higher 
ramp rates, and faster start-up and shutdown sequences. Also, Unit shall be envisaged 
with water Chemistry improvements. 
 Increased number of SH/RH headers and adoption of upgraded metallurgy to enable 
reduced header wall thickness 
 Coal pulverizers (having dynamic classifiers) with automated mill scheduler (along with 
mill window) for dynamic optimization of mills. Milling system equipped with variable 
orifice in coal flow pipes and coal pipe flow measurement. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 14 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 Improved burners suitable for low load stable operation, lower NOx and low load 
scanners. SG shall be fitted with Separated Overfire Air dampers.  
 The SG shall be designed to have flue gas recirculation (FGR) system. 
 Automated Single Stream operation of auxiliaries for low load/ near TML operation. 
 Online Assessment & display of Life consumption/ Equivalent Operating Hours (EOH) 
of critical components due to Creep & Fatigue. 
 Provision of simulation programme to assess the unit design features as envisaged and 
designed. 
 
1.04.00 Rating of Steam Generator(s) 
 
 Steam Generator shall be designed to cater to duty requirements at Boiler Maximum 
Continuous Rating (BMCR) specified below: 
  
Capacity of 
Steam 
Generator and 
Rated Steam 
parameters: 
Steam Flow 
(T/Hr) 
Temp. 
(Deg C) 
Pressure 
Kg/cm2(a) 
i) At super-
heater outlet      
102% of the 
turbine VWO 
steam flow 
requirement. 
To achieve turbine throttle 
main steam temperature 
as indicated in clause 
5.02.00. The steam 
temperature at 
Superheater outlet shall 
be atleast 3°C higher than 
the rated main steam 
temperature at HP turbine 
inlet. 
To achieve 
turbine throttle 
steam pressure 
as indicated in 
clause 5.02.00. 
The steam 
pressure at 
superheater 
outlet shall be 
atleast 9 kg/cm2 
higher than the 
rated main steam 
pressure at HP 
turbine inlet. 
ii) At re-heater 
outlet           
- To achieve reheat steam 
temperature at Turbine 
Inlet as indicated in clause 
5.02.00 of this Sub-
section. The steam 
temperature at reheater 
outlet shall be atleast 3 oC 
higher than the rated 
reheat steam temperature 
at IP turbine inlet.                                             
To be optimized 
by the bidder. 
iii) Feed Water 
Temp. at   
Economizer 
Inlet 
 To be optimized by the 
bidder but not less than 
245oC 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 15 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
2.00.00   Fuel data 
 The primary fuel for the main steam generator shall be coal. LDO shall be used for initial 
start-up, coal flame stabilization and low load operation of the steam generator while firing 
coal. The combustion system shall also ensure efficient and stable combustion of biomass 
co-fired with coal, as specified. 
 Standard coal characteristics, LDO, and biomass characteristics are attached as Appendix 
–‘Fuel Characteristics’. 
 
3.00.00 Each steam generator and its auxiliaries shall necessarily include the following- 
(a) Complete pressure parts, structures, platforms, stairs, piping, valves, supports etc. 
(b) Soot blowing system with piping, valves, controls etc. 
(c) Coal feeder and complete milling system 
(d) Coal combustion system including coal / oil burners & scanners. 
(e) Air and flue gas ductwork. 
(f) Primary air fans. 
(g) Forced draft fans. 
(h) Induced draft fans. 
(i) Aux PRDS and piping 
(j) Startup & circulation system, 
(k) Air heaters & SCAPH. 
(l) Flue Gas Recirculation (FGR) 
(m) Low pressure economizer (as per offered design) 
(n) Elevators for Steam generators  
(o) Chemical HP/LP Dozing system and Oxygenated Treatment system (as applicable) 
(p) Electrostatic Precipitators (ESP). 
(q) Biomass Co-firing 
 
4.00.00 Environmental Control Equipments 
4.01.00 NOx Control Equipment 
 NOx control through staged combustion and Low-NOx burners (max. 300 mg/Nm3 at 6% O2 
on dry gas basis at Steam Generator Outlet). 
  
4.02.00 ESP 
 Electrostatic Precipitators complete in all respects with all components and accessories. 
 The Electrostatic Precipitator (ESP) shall be designed to ensure that particulate matter 
emissions at the stack do not exceed 30 mg/Nm³ . 
  
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 16 of 60                                                                                                      
 
5.00.00 Steam Turbine 
5.01.00 Type 
 The steam turbine shall be tandem compound, single reheat, regenerative, condensing, 
multi-cylinder design with separate HP, separate IP and separate LP cylinder OR combined 
casing for HP-IP and separate LP cylinder directly coupled with generator suitable for indoor 
installation. 
 
5.02.00 Rating 
  The steam turbine generator unit shall conform to the following design and duty conditions: 
 
1.  Output under economic maximum 
continuous rating (EMCR) (guaranteed 
output load) at generator terminals 
: 250 MW 
2.  Turbine throttle steam pressure :  150 Kg/cm2 (abs) 
3.  Turbine throttle main steam temp.  : 537 oC 
4.  Reheat steam temp. at turbine inlet : 537 oC 
5.  Condenser pressure   :  77 mm Hg (abs) 
6.  Turbine speed    : 3000 rpm 
7.  Frequency variation range around rated 
frequency of 50 Hz   
: + 3% to - 5% (47.5 Hz to 51.5 
Hz) 
 
5.03.00 Other Features 
 
 Turbine shall be capable of operating continuously with valves wide open (V.W.O.) to 
swallow at least 105% of EMCR steam flow to the turbine at rated main steam and reheat 
steam parameters and also the corresponding output shall not be less than 105% of rated 
load with 1% make up and 77 mm Hg (abs) condenser pressure. 
 
 The steam turbine shall have minimum Six  uncontrolled extractions for regenerative feed 
heating based on optimized cycle and shall be suitable for satisfactory operation under 
tropical conditions. 
 
5.04.00 Steam Turbine Generator & Auxiliaries and associated systems shall be designed for 40% 
Technical Minimum Load (TML) with an option to optimize for 30% and 25% TML; for 
meeting this requirement and ensuring the design life of Turbine including its auxiliaries, 
necessary changes in design to be made. Design changes to be considered shall include 
but not limited to the following. 
1.   Changes required in LP Turbine last stage and second last stage blades (as applicable) to 
take care of increased flow separation at 40% TML. 
2.  Applicant shall consider state of art design with respect to blade metallurgy and effective 
moisture separation methodology to avoid blade erosion & failures at 40% load continuous 
operation of Turbine. Bidder shall submit thermal stress analysis report of Turbine 
components at 40% TML operation. 
3.  Increased thermal stress in Turbine stages: To enable continuous operation of turbine at 
40% load, Applicant shall take care of the increased stresses (due to ventilation) in turbine 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 17 of 60                                                                                                      
 
design and ensure that design life of turbine and its components is not reduced. Further, 
turbine and auxiliaries shall also be designed for complying the requirements related to 
flexibilization as mentioned in CEA (Flexible Operation of Coal based Thermal Power 
Generating Units) Regulations, 2023. 
  
5.05.00 a) Provision for life consumption/Equivalent Operating Hours (EOH) of critical components 
due to Creep & Fatigue shall be made available online (display in CCR) for Operating 
personnel. Also program/measures shall be made available online (display in CCR) to guide 
the operating personnel for maintenance planning. 
 b) Resulting Damage Factor due to Creep-Fatigue interaction shall be made available online 
(display in CCR) for Operating personnel. 
 
6.00.00 Generator 
 
6.01.00 Type  
 
               Three phase, horizontal mounted, indoor installed, two-pole, Thermal Class 155 (F) winding 
insulation, Stator water/ hydrogen cooled, cylindrical hydrogen/water cooled rotor type. 
 
6.02.00 Rating 
 
Generator and its excitation system shall have a capability at least matching the declared 
maximum continuous rated output of the associated steam turbine (for the designed 
secondary cooling water temperature) at all power factors between 0.85 lagging and 0.95 
leading with +3% to -5% frequency variation, terminal voltage variation of +/- 5% and 
combined voltage & frequency variation of 5%. It shall be ensured that when the Generator 
is working at this capability and design cooling water temperature, no part of the Generator 
shall attain a temperature in excess of the temperature limits specified for class-B insulation 
as per IEC-60034. 
6.03.00 Also the generator and its excitation system shall be capable of continuous stable operation 
without any excessive temperature rise at the peak output of the associated steam turbine 
under VWO & HP heater out condition, etc. as available for the designed secondary cooling 
water temperature, at all power factors between 0.85 lagging and 0.95 leading with +3% to 
-5% frequency variation, terminal voltage variation of +/- 5% and combined voltage & 
frequency variation of 5%.  Temperature of different parts may exceed those permissible for 
class-B insulation under such operating conditions, but shall be lower than those permissible 
for class-F insulation as per IEC-60034.  
 
6.04.00 Rated Parameters 
 
1.  Power Factor        - 0.85 (lag) 
2.  Terminal voltage   -       In the 14 to 18kV range 
3.  Frequency             - 50 Hz 
4.  Speed                   - 3000 rpm 
5.  Short circuit ratio   - Not less than 0.48 (without any 
tolerance) 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 18 of 60                                                                                                      
 
6.05.00 Operational Flexibility 
 
The Generator shall be designed to support two-shift / cycling operation and frequent start-
stop cycles consistent with modern grid requirements for flexible thermal units. 
 
Design shall consider increased thermal cycling fatigue and provide adequate margins for 
lower Technical Minimum Load operation as required by the associated turbine and plant 
operating philosophy. 
 
7.00.00 Coal Handling & Biomass Handling Plant  
 
As applicable, coal requirement for new units shall be met from the existing coal handling 
plant through interconnection conveyors (in case the existing coal handling plant has 
sufficient capacity and provision for the interconnection) or a new coal handling plant   shall 
be provided, Rated capacity of CHP shall be as specified in the technical Specification.   
 
The design capacity of the conveyors shall be 110% of the rated capacity. 
 
In case the new CHP is proposed, it shall consists of the following: 
(a) Conveying and Crushing streams 
(b) Coal Unloading facilities like wagon tippler, apron feeder, side arm charger or paddle 
feeder depending upon the coal source and the type of wagons being used for coal, 
transportation. 
(c) Stacker-cum-Reclaimer with Automatic Stockyard Management System & wind barrier 
in case the land is availability for additional stockyard. 
(d)  Upstream conveying streams up to coal bunker, including the travelling trippers 
(e) Biomass handling plant (if required). 
8.00.00 Ash Handling  System   
 
 Ash handling system consists of the following sub systems: 
 
a) Bottom Ash Handling System 
 
i) Jet pump and Water Impounded Hopper System – An intermittent system consisting of 
water impounded hoppers, clinker grinders, jet pumps etc. 
OR 
ii) Submerged Scrapper Conveyor and dry type hopper System – A continuous system 
consisting of dry type Bottom Ash hoppers, submerged scrapper conveyors, clinker 
grinders, bottom ash slurry trench etc.  
 
 
iii)   Wet bottom ash handling system for economiser/eco duct hopper/APH hopper/ APH duct 
hopper, 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 19 of 60                                                                                                      
 
b) Dry Fly Ash Conveying system 
 
Two alternatives for pneumatic conveying system (i.e. vacuum conveying system or 
pressure conveying system) are specified for conveying of fly ash from ESP Hoppers to 
Buffer Hoppers/Intermediate cum HCSD Silo/ Main fly ash silo in dry form. 
 
 
i) Vacuum Conveying System  
 
 It shall consist of liquid ring vacuum pumps, material handling valves, cast iron and 
MS pipes, instrument air compressors etc.  
 
  OR 
 
ii) Pressure Conveying System 
 
 It shall consist of screw compressors, air lock/pump tanks, ash intake & discharge 
valves, CI & MS pipes, instrument air compressors etc. 
 
 
c) Dry Fly Ash Transportation system  
 
The dry fly ash from the buffer hoppers/ ESP hoppers/Intermediate cum storage silos shall 
be transported to storage silos through fly ash classification system. The user industries 
shall take the dry fly ash from storage silos either in rail wagons, closed tankers or in open 
tankers. Automatic bagging plant facility is envisaged for fly ash bagging purpose 
 
d) Ash Disposal System 
 
The bottom ash in slurry form shall be taken to the ash slurry sump of bottom ash slurry 
disposal pump house for further disposal to bottom ash dyke. 
 
As applicable, the unutilized fly ash shall be disposed to HSCD dyke in high concentration 
slurry form from the mixing tank of HCSD pump house. 
 
 
9.00.00   Water Systems 
 
9.01.00 WATER TREATMENT PLANT (WTP) 
Water Treatment Plant (WTP) consisting of the following sub systems shall be provided as 
per the scope of Technical Specification: 
a) Pre-Treatment Plant  
b) Chlorine Di-oxide Plant  
c) Demineralizing plant  
d) Liquid Effluent Treatment System & Wastewater UF-RO system  
e) CSSP system 
f) Drain Separation & ZLD 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 20 of 60                                                                                                      
 
9.02.00 CW SYSTEM   
Closed loop recirculating type CW system with CW Pumps, Induced / Natural Draft Cooling 
Tower & CW Chemical Treatment; Equipment cooling water system for TG, SG & Station 
auxiliaries etc shall be provided. 
Auxiliary Water Pumps (Raw water for PT & Ash, HVAC, APH wash, Service water, potable 
water, DM make-up, Boiler fill, etc.) shall be provided. 
10.00.00 Fire detection & protection system, Compressed air(instrument & service air) system, A/C and 
ventilation system, shall be provided.  
11.00.00  CONDENSATE POLISHING PLANT  
 Condensate Polishing Plant (CPU) along with external regeneration facility shall be provided.  
 
12.00.00 Electrical Systems 
The electrical items shall cover following: 
 Generator, Excitation System and its Auxiliary Systems 
 
 Motors  
 
 Generator Busducts, MV Busducts . 
 
 765 KV/400 KV/220/132 KV AIS/GIS Switchyard (As applicable) 
 
 Power Transformers, Auxiliary Oil Filled Transformers, Indoor Transformers 
 
 MV Switchgears, LV Switchgears and LV Busducts, Numerical Relay Networking, DC System, 
Battery and Battery Charger 
 
 HT Power Cables, LT Power and Control Cables, Cabling, Earthing and Lightning Protection, 
Lighting, DG Sets 
 
 Construction Power facilities 
 
 Type Testing and Mandatory Spares. 
 
13.00.00   C & I Systems 
 All the systems/equipment being supplied under this package shall be monitored and controlled 
from DDCMIS in this package.  In this package fieldbus-based controls and conventional 
controls (hardwired 4-20mA/DI/DO) are envisaged. The control system, called Distributed 
Digital Control Monitoring & Information system (DDCMIS) is envisaged to be procured under 
this package for control and operation of -  
 Integral control & protection of boiler including Burner Management System and Boiler 
protection system. 
 The integral control & protection of Steam Turbine Generator including Electro-hydraulic 
control & Turbine Protection system. 
 Modulating controls of the Steam Generator (SG) {Combustion Control- Fuel Flow/Air Flow; 
Furnace Draft Control, FW flow control etc.}. 
 Modulating controls of Feedwater & Condensate Cycle {Hotwell level control, Deaerater Level 
control, Heater Level Control, etc.}. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 21 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 Binary control of auxiliaries of Steam Generator (SG) {Forced draft (FD) fan, Induced Draft 
(ID) Fan, Primary Air (PA) Fan etc.}. 
 Binary control of auxiliaries of Turbine Generator (TG) {Boiler Feed Pump (BFP), Condensate 
Extraction Pump (CEP) etc.}. 
 Electrical Breaker including synchronization circuits. 
 Coal and biomass Handling Plant. 
 Water System (PT Plant, DM Plant, Cooling Tower, Fire water booster pump etc.). 
 CW System 
 Air compressor 
 Air Conditioning and Ventilation systems. 
 Ash Handling Plant. 
 Make-up water System. 
 FOPH System 
 Electric Actuators 
 
Human Machine Interface & Plant Information System (HMIPIS) is based on Large Video 
Screen (LVS) displays supported by TFT monitor based Operator Work Stations (OWS). These 
devices through customized user-friendly displays, soft alarm facia and pop-up displays are 
used for giving fast pin-pointed faults/ status to the operator. Local ON/OFF operation of 
equipments is envisaged through Graphical Interface Unit (GIU). The total system is networked 
through a Station-Wide LAN for use of real time data of various plant areas by other users like 
maintenance, planning, efficiency enhancement groups etc. 
 
The sequence of events recording & alarm annunciation are also implemented as a part of 
DDCMIS system.  A GPS based master and slave clock system is to be provided for uniform 
and synchronized timing signals throughout the entire station. 
 
 The power supply for the control system is based on 24V DC provided through microprocessor 
based modular charger system and for the peripherals and other subsystem through 230V 
Single Phase UPS. 
 
 Main Equipment related instruments like Flame Monitoring system, Coal Bunker Level 
measurement system, gravimetric feeder control system, Acoustic Steam Leak detection 
system, Furnace and Flame viewing system, Turbine stress control / evaluation system, Turbine 
supervisory and diagnostic system etc are also procured through this package. 
 
 Field instruments like pressure, DP, flow & level transmitter, analyzers along with their process 
connection & piping as well as measurement systems like vibration monitoring system etc are 
also procured through this package. 
 
 A plant-wide CCTV system based on IP technology along with suitable analytics is included in 
this package for safety control room, storage yard monitoring, surveillance of plant equipment 
as an aid to the operation. 
  
 Suitable cybersecurity provisions shall be implemented for security of the complete system as 
well as compliance to the latest cybersecurity guidelines/ regulations. 
 
Complete Simulator system is included in this package for training through simulation. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 22 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
 Apart from above, an on-line Steam & Water analysis system (SWAS), PA system, Operator 
control desks, panels, shielded twisted pair cables as well as optical fiber cables for system 
interconnection and all types of Instrumentation Cables are also included in this package. 
14.00.00 Civil Works 
All civil, structural, and architectural works, as well as associated underground infrastructure 
such as drainage systems, sewerage networks, trenches, and earthing/grounding grids for all 
facilities covered under the package. Civil works broadly comprise, but are not limited to, the 
following: 
 
 Boiler, Mill Bunker, Mill bunker building, ESP, FD/ID/PA, Seal Air fans, mills etc. 
 Coal transfer points, coal conveyor galleries and supporting trestles including staircases, 
gravity take up structure for conveyors of CHP and other civil works related to CHP. 
 Main plant building i.e. TG building, Deaerator bay, control tower. 
 TG foundation & BFP foundation  
 CW System 
 Civil works for ACW System. 
 Civil works for Cooling Tower 
 Forebay, Switchgear room, Control room and Transformer foundation. 
 Raw water Pump house, Forebay, Switchgear room, Control room and Transformer foundation. 
 Transformer yard i.e. Transformer foundation, rail track foundation, fire wall, central oil pit 
 Works associated with rail track along A row and transformer yard.  
 Foundation for DG set enclosure & stack foundation  
 Service building 
 Civil works for CPU in TG hall & regeneration area 
 Elevator Pit & civil works for machine room for elevator. 
 Chimney & chimney elevator 
 ESP control room buildings. 
 Mill reject silo  
 Earth mat and risers for Main Plant area & other facilities included in this package 
 Fuel oil pressuring pump house with switchgear room & control room. 
 Ash handling system along with switch gear building & control Room and provision of Ash 
disposal minimum up to 10 m from plant boundary 
 Civil works for switchyard. 
 Sewerage works including STP of Main Plant and BOP areas  
 Patrol/inspection road along with Ash slurry pipe corridor 
 Compressor house 
 Safety park 
 Hard crusting of pre-assembly yard, boiler area, TG area, passage ways in Main Plant area 
 Paving in XFMR Yard, TG, SG, ESP, ID fan, and Chimney area. 
 Condensate storage tank and CST pumps foundations. 
 Outdoor transformer foundations 
 Site levelling of Main plant and BOP area 
 Reservoir 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 23 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 Plant roads & drains including approach road to ash silos 
 Approach roads to various buildings  
 Civil works related to Fire water booster pump house, pedestal for pipes and DV housing, 
concrete encasement of pylon pipes (within filled up gravel portion) used for HVW spray 
system for protection of transformers.  
 Pipe cable supports / trestle in BTG & offsite areas for Ash handling area, Ash silo, FOPPH, 
Aux Steam interconnection and fire water network with existing stage and its foundations 
 Civil works associated with air-conditioning and ventilation system 
 Civil works associated with buried pipes 
 Pedestals, thrust blocks, trenches, hume pipes & culvert, duct banks etc. at road/rail 
crossings for pipes & cables. 
 Civil works for installation of pumps at existing MUWPH. 
 Civil works associated with fire detection and protection pipes 
 Civil works associated with Electrical equipment and cabling 
 Civil Works for Miscellaneous switchgear room building  
 CHP Office building cum Workshop 
 
Miscellaneous Buildings 
 Civil, structural, architectural, electrical and associated air-conditioning, Ventilation, and 
rain water harvesting for  
 Fire station building 
 O&M stores 
 Gate Complex including CISF Complex 
 Canteen  
 O&M workshop building 
 Watch Towers 
 Dozer shed. 
 Hydrogen Cylinder Storage sheds 
 Administration Building,  
 Occupational health center,  
 Owner’s construction office,  
 Plant Boundary wall  
 Any  other miscellaneous building or facility 
 
15.00.00  MILL REJECT SYSTEM, 
Mechanical conveying system shall be employed for handling of the mill rejects. Mill reject shall 
be stored in Mill reject Silos through a series of Mechanical conveying equipments. 
16.00.00 FUEL OIL HANDLING AND STORAGE SYSTEM  
        Fuel oil unloading shall be provided to handle light diesel oil (LDO) through Road Tankers. 
 
 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 24 of 60                                                                                                      
 
Annexure-B 
 
Indicative Qualifying Requirements for EPC Package  
 
(Note: At the stage of EOI application submission, applicant is not required to submit documentary 
evidence/supporting documents/credentials in support of their meeting the qualifying criteria. 
However, they will have to submit the essential data sought and also the route they intend to seek 
qualification in future in case NTPC issues any tender in this regard.) 
 
 The Applicant should meet the qualifying requirements stipulated hereunder in clauses 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 or 1.3.0 : 
1.0.0           Technical Criteria: 
1.1.0  Route 1: Qualified Steam Generator and/or Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer  
1.1.1    (a) The Applicant should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got manufactured, erected/ 
supervised erection, commissioned/ supervised commissioning of at least one (1) number of 
pulverized coal fired Steam Generator rated for a minimum of 150 MW size or minimum 450 T/Hr 
steaming capacity. Further, such Steam generator should be of the type specified, i.e. Drum type 
with single pass (tower type)/two pass arrangement or once through type with single pass (tower 
type)/two pass arrangement, both (Drum & once through type) with reheat, using either spiral 
wound (inclined) or vertical plain or vertical rifled type water wall tubing, and which should have 
been in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to the last date of 
submission of EOI. In addition, the above Steam Generator should have been provided with 
evaporator suitable for variable pressure operation. The Applicant shall offer only the type of 
Steam Generator and type of water wall tubing for which it is qualified. 
AND/OR 
 
1.1.1 (b) The Applicant should have designed, engineered, manufactured/got manufactured, erected/ 
supervised erection, commissioned/ supervised commissioning of at least one (1) number of steam 
turbine of tandem compound, condensing, multi cylinder, reheat type of 150 MW or higher capacity 
and one (1) number of generator of two pole, Thermal class 155(F) winding insulation, hydrogen / 
water cooled stator and hydrogen / water cooled rotor of 150 MW or higher capacity. These steam 
turbine and generator should have been in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) 
year prior to the last date of submission of application for EOI. The Applicant  shall offer only the 
type of Steam Turbine generator for which it is qualified. 
 
1.1.2  In case the Applicant  meets the requirements indicated at 1.1.1 (a)/(b) for either steam generator 
sets or steam turbine generator sets (and not for both) then the Applicant shall associate/ 
collaborate for the other equipment with Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer or 
Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer, who shall in turn meet the requirements stipulated at 
1.1.1 (b) in conjunction with 1.1.4 (as applicable) or 1.1.1 (a) above as the case may be for the 
respective equipment and shall source the equipment i.e. steam turbine generator set or steam 
generator set, only from such qualified associate. 
1.1.3   The applicant shall be required to furnish the Deeds of Joint Undertaking (DJUs) as per the following 
table: 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 25 of 60                                                                                                      
 
DJU Executants BG 
For Steam Generator 
 
The Applicant ------- 
QSGM 0.6% 
For Steam Generator (In case of Indian 
subsidiary / JV Company of Qualified 
Steam Generator Manufacturer) 
The Applicant ---------- 
Indian Subsidiary / JV 
Company for Steam 
Generator 
0.6% 
For Steam turbine Generator The Applicant ---------- 
QSTGM 0.6% 
For Steam turbine Generator (In case of 
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of 
Qualified Steam turbine Generator 
Manufacturer) 
The Applicant ---------- 
Indian Subsidiary / JV 
Company for Steam 
turbine Generator 
0.6% 
For Steam turbine Generator (If QSTGM is 
not meeting requirement for Generator) 
The Applicant ---------- 
QSTGM 0.6% 
QGM 0.1% 
For Steam turbine Generator (In case of 
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of 
Qualified Steam turbine Generator 
Manufacturer and If QSTGM is not meeting 
requirement for Generator) 
 
The Applicant ---------- 
Indian Subsidiary / JV 
Company for Steam 
turbine Generator 
0.6% 
QGM 0.1% 
 
i. In the Deed of Joint Undertaking for Steam Generator and Auxiliaries, all the executants of DJU 
shall be jointly and severally liable to the Employer for successful performance of the contract for 
the scope related to steam generator and auxiliaries.  
ii. In the Deed of Joint Undertaking for Steam Turbine Generator and Auxiliaries all the executants of 
DJU shall be jointly and severally liable to the Employer for successful performance of the contract 
for the scope related to Steam Turbine Generator and Auxiliaries including turbine cycle, 
regenerative feed heating and pumping system.  
iii. Qualified Generator Manufacturer (wherever applicable) shall be liable to the Employer for 
successful performance of the generator and its auxiliaries.  
iv. Where the Bank Guarantee (BG) amount is indicated as %, the same shall be % of the total   contract 
price. 
v. In case the Applicant gets qualified using notes and/or other clauses then the DJU and BG 
requirement indicated in such notes / clauses shall also apply in addition to above. 
vi. Applicable BGs are in addition to the contract performance security to be furnished by the 
Applicant . 
vii. Applicable BGs shall be furnished as per tender requirements. 
     1.1.4     An Applicant who meets the requirements of clause 1.1.1 (b) except for generator would also 
qualify provided the Applicant/its collaborator/associate for steam turbine generator 
collaborates/associates with a Generator Manufacturer who meets the requirements of clause 
1.1.1 (b) fully in respect of generator, hereinafter referred to as Qualified Generator Manufacturer. 
The Qualified Generator Manufacturer shall necessarily be one of the executants of DJU being 
submitted by the Applicant (for steam turbine generator and auxiliaries) as per clause 1.1.3 above. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 26 of 60                                                                                                      
 
1.2.0        Route: 2     
1.2.1     The Applicant should have executed on Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) basis, 
minimum one (1) no. 150 MW or above pulverized Coal fired unit comprising of at least steam generator 
and steam turbine generator sets along with their associated auxiliary equipments, electrostatic 
precipitators/bag filters, Switchyard, Coal Handling plant, Ash handling plant, Cooling Towers, 
Condenser Cooling water system, including associated civil works for the above equipments and 
systems, which is in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to the last date 
of submission of EOI. 
OR 
The Applicant should have executed in the last 10 years, from the last day of month previous to one in 
which EOI has been invited, industrial projects on EPC basis (with or without civil works) in the area of 
power, steel, oil & gas, petro-chemical, fertilizer, flue gas desulphurization, cement and / or any other 
process industry with the total value of such projects being INR 10000 million or more. At least one of 
such projects should have a contract value of INR 4000  million or more. These projects shall be in 
successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to the last date of submission of EOI. 
OR 
The Applicant should have designed & engineered by itself or under collaboration, manufactured/got 
manufactured, erected/ supervised erection, commissioned/ supervised commissioning of at least one 
(1) number of pulverized coal fired Steam Generator sets and/or steam turbine generator sets rated for 
a minimum of 80 MW and one (1) number of generator of two pole, Thermal class 155(F) winding 
insulation, air/hydrogen / water cooled stator and air/ hydrogen / water cooled rotor minimum of 80 
MW which should have been in successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to 
the last date of submission of application for EOI. 
1.2.2    The Applicant shall associate/ collaborate for the (i) Steam Generator and (ii) Steam Turbine Generator 
sets and shall source these equipments only from the Associate / Collaborator who meets the following: 
(i) Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer, who shall in turn meet the requirements stipulated at 
1.1.1(a) for Steam Generator. 
OR 
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer as the case may be along 
with requirements stipulated at Note for Clause 1.1.0. 
(ii) Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer, who shall in turn meet the requirements stipulated 
at 1.1.1(b) in conjunction with 1.1.4 (as applicable) for the Steam Turbine Generator Sets. 
OR 
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer as the case may 
be along with requirements stipulated at Note for Clause 1.1.0. 
 
   1.2.3        The applicant shall be required to furnish the Deeds of Joint Undertaking (DJUs) as per the following 
table: 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 27 of 60                                                                                                      
 
DJU Executants BG 
For Steam Generator 
 
The Applicant ---------- 
QSGM 0.6% 
For Steam Generator (In case of 
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of 
Qualified Steam Generator 
Manufacturer) 
The Applicant ---------- 
Indian Subsidiary / JV Company for 
Steam Generator 
0.6% 
For Steam turbine Generator 
 
The Applicant ---------- 
QSTGM 0.6% 
For Steam turbine Generator (In case 
of Indian subsidiary / JV Company of 
Qualified Steam turbine Generator 
Manufacturer) 
The Applicant ---------- 
Indian Subsidiary / JV Company for 
Steam Turbine Generator 
0.6% 
For Steam turbine Generator (If 
QSTGM is not meeting requirement 
for Generator) 
 
The Applicant ---------- 
QSTGM 0.6% 
QGM 0.1% 
For Steam turbine Generator (In case 
of Indian subsidiary / JV Company of 
Qualified Steam turbine Generator 
Manufacturer and If QSTGM is not 
meeting requirement for Generator) 
 
The Applicant ---------- 
Indian Subsidiary / JV Company for 
Steam Turbine Generator 
0.6% 
QGM 0.1% 
 
i. In the Deed of Joint Undertaking for Steam Generator and Auxiliaries, all the executants of DJU shall 
be jointly and severally liable to the Employer for successful performance of the contract for the 
scope related to steam generator and auxiliaries.  
ii. In the Deed of Joint Undertaking for Steam Turbine Generator and Auxiliaries all the executants of 
DJU shall be jointly and severally liable to the Employer for successful performance of the contract 
for the scope related to Steam Turbine Generator and Auxiliaries including turbine cycle, 
regenerative feed heating and pumping system.  
iii. Qualified Generator Manufacturer (wherever applicable) shall be liable to the Employer for 
successful performance of the generator and its auxiliaries.  
iv. Where the Bank Guarantee (BG) amount is indicated as %, the same shall be % of the total   contract 
price. 
v. In case the Applicant gets qualified using notes and/or other clauses then the DJU and BG 
requirement indicated in such notes / clauses shall also apply in addition to above. 
vi. Applicable BGs are in addition to the contract performance security to be furnished by the 
Applicant. 
vii. Applicable BGs shall be furnished as per tender requirements. 
 
   1.2.4  In case the Applicant’s associate is steam turbine manufacturer meeting the requirements of clause 
1.1.1 (b) except for generator would also qualify provided the Applicant/its collaborator/associate 
for steam turbine generator collaborates/associates with a Generator Manufacturer who meets 
the requirements of clause 1.1.1 (b) fully in respect of generator, hereinafter referred to as 
Qualified Generator Manufacturer. The Qualified Generator Manufacturer shall necessarily be one 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 28 of 60                                                                                                      
 
of the executants of DJU being submitted by the Applicant (for steam turbine generator and 
auxiliaries) as per clause 1.2.3 above. 
1.2.5 The Applicant shall offer only the type of steam generator and type of water wall tubing, and the 
steam turbine generator for which its collaborator / associate is qualified. 
           1.3.0         Route 3: Consortium (unincorporated grouping) Route 
Applicant shall be a Consortium (unincorporated grouping) of minimum two (2) and maximum up 
to three (3) entities and shall collectively meet the following qualification requirement. However, 
each consortium partner shall necessarily be required to meet any one of the following 
requirements specified at clauses 1.3.1, 1.3.2 and 1.3.3. 
1.3.1      One of the Consortium partners should meet the requirements as indicated at clause 1.1.1(a). 
OR 
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer as the case may be 
along with requirements stipulated at Note for Clause 1.1.0. 
1.3.2      One of the Consortium partners should meet the requirements as indicated at clause 1.1.1(b). 
OR 
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer as the case 
may be along with requirements stipulated at Note for Clause 1.1.0. 
1.3.3    One of the Consortium partners should meet the requirements as indicated at clause 1.2.1. 
1.3.4      Each of the Consortium partners will be required to furnish a legally enforceable Consortium 
Agreement holding themselves jointly and severally responsible and liable to the employer to 
perform all works. The number of executants of the Consortium Agreement should not exceed 
three (3).  
Notes for clause 1.0.0  
(1) Definitions 
(i) “Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer” (QSGM) means a manufacturer meeting requirement 
stipulated at 1.1.1(a). 
(ii) “Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer” (QSTGM) means a manufacturer meeting 
requirement stipulated at 1.1.1(b). 
(iii) Wherever the term 'coal fired' is appearing above, "coal" shall be deemed to also include 
bituminous   coal/subbituminous coal/brown coal/lignite. 
(2) Erection/Commissioning 
Where erection / supervision of erection and commissioning / supervision of commissioning has 
not been in the scope of the Applicant as mentioned in clause 1.1.0, it should have acted as an 
advisor for erection and commissioning of the Steam Generator & auxiliaries/ Steam Turbine & 
Generator, as the case may be. Necessary documents / certificates from the client, in support of 
above shall be furnished along with submission of EOI.  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 29 of 60                                                                                                      
 
(3) Direct / Indirect order 
i) The Applicant / Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer / Qualified Steam Turbine Generator 
Manufacturer / Qualified Generator Manufacturer/Consortium partner (s) shall also be considered 
qualified, in case the award for the reference works (steam generator / Turbine and generator) has 
been received by the Applicant / Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer / Qualified Steam 
Turbine Generator Manufacturer / Qualified Generator Manufacturer /Consortium partner (s) 
either directly from owner of plant or any other intermediary organization. A certificate from such 
owner of plant or the intermediary organization shall be required to be furnished by the Applicant 
/ Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer / Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer / 
Qualified Generator Manufacturer/ Consortium along with submission of EOI in support of its claim 
of meeting requirement stipulated at 1.1.1(a), 1.1.1(b) and 1.1.4 above as the case may be. 
ii) Certificate from owner of the plant shall also be furnished by the Applicant / Qualified Steam 
Generator Manufacturer / Qualified Steam Turbine Generator Manufacturer / Consortium 
partner(s) for the successful operation of the steam generator / steam turbine generator set as 
specified at 1.1.1(a), 1.1.1(b) and 1.1.4 above as the case may be along with the submission of EOI.  
(4).  (i) “for the scope related to Steam Turbine Generator and Auxiliaries including turbine cycle, 
regenerative feed heating and pumping system” indicated at clauses 1.1.3 and 1.2.3 shall mean 
Steam Turbine Generator and their Auxiliaries including turbine cycle, regenerative feed heating 
and pumping system.  
(ii) “for the scope related to Steam Generator and Auxiliaries” indicated at clauses 1.1.3 and 1.2.3  
shall mean Steam Generator and Auxiliaries. 
(5).   The value of executed works shall be given a simple weightage to bring them at current price level 
by adding 5% for each year on prorata basis after the end date of completion/execution of the 
reference work, till the last day of month previous to one in which EOI has been invited. 
The specified value of executed works (i.e. INR 10000 million or more and INR 4000  million or more) 
is excluding any taxes and duties. 
(6)        The word “executed” means: 
a)  In case of Project(s), the project(s) should have been commissioned, even if the contract has 
been started earlier and / or is not completed / closed. 
b)  In case of Contract(s), the scope of work under the contract(s) should have been completed, 
even if the contract has been started earlier and / or is not closed. 
(7)  For the purposes of this EOI, any reference to the last date notified for receipt of application 
mentioned in the Qualifying Requirements shall be deemed to refer to the last date for receipt of 
applications as specified in the initially published Notification. 
(8)  In case Steam Generator manufacturer meets all the requirements as specified in clause no. 1.1.1 (a) 
above except that the evaporator in the reference steam generator is not designed for variable 
pressure operation and is designed for constant pressure (Universal Pressure) operation only, in such 
case, the Steam Generator manufacturer shall be considered to be qualified, provided that, such 
Steam Generator manufacturer has an ongoing license agreement (which covers technology 
transfer), with the original Technology Owner (Licensor) for design, manufacture, sell, use, service 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 30 of 60                                                                                                      
 
of once through variable pressure steam generator technology (with evaporator suitable for variable 
pressure operation). 
i. The licensor should have experience of providing such variable pressure design steam generator 
technology for at least one (1) no. of pulverized coal fired steam generator for a 450 T/hr or higher 
capacity using either spiral wound (inclined) or vertical plain or vertical rifled type water wall 
tubing with the evaporator suitable for variable pressure operation and which should be in 
successful operation for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to the last date of submission 
of application for EOI.  
ii. The Applicant shall offer only the type of steam generator i.e. single pass (tower type) or two pass 
type for which the Bidder is qualified and shall offer only the type of water wall tubing (either 
spiral wound (inclined) or vertical plain or vertical rifled type) for which his licensor is qualified.  
iii. In such an event, the Applicant shall furnish an undertaking executed between the Bidder and 
the steam generator manufacturer (as the case may be) and its Technology Owner (Licensor), for 
successful performance of the Steam Generator. 
Note for Clause 1.1.0 
In case the Applicant is registered in India under the Companies Act 2013 (as amended from time to 
time), either as a Subsidiary Company or a Joint Venture (JV) Company of QSGM/QSTGM for steam 
generator sets and/or steam turbine generator sets, then the Applicant can also participate under 
Route 1.1.0 provided it has collaboration or licensing agreement or Letter of technical support for 
steam generator sets and/or steam turbine generator sets with its QSGM/QSTGM. 
 
In case of JV Company - In such a case, such QSGM and/or QSTGM shall maintain a minimum 26% 
equity participation in its JV Company for a lock-in period of seven (7) years from the date of 
incorporation of such Joint Venture or up to the end of defect liability period of the contract, 
whichever is later.  
 
In case of Subsidiary Company - The Subsidiary Company shall remain a subsidiary Company of the 
QSGM and/or QSTGM for a minimum period of 7 years from the date of incorporation of such 
Subsidiary Company or up to the end of the defect liability period of the contract whichever is later. 
 
In case applicant is not having collaboration or licensing agreement and seeking qualification through 
Letter of technical support from QSGM and/or QSTGM then such Letter of technical support shall be 
valid minimum up to the end of defect liability period of the contract. 
 
Further, Subsidiary Company or a Joint Venture (JV) Company of QSGM/QSTGM shall be required to 
meet other applicable requirements of respective Routes as the case may be. 
 
Note for clause 1.3.0: 
(i)  All the Consortium partners shall identify one of the partners as the “lead partner”. In case any 
consortium partner is meeting more than one qualifying requirement (as specified in clause 1.3.1, 
1.3.2 & 1.3.3) then the consortium may not tie-up with any other entity for such qualifying 
requirements. In such a case, number of consortium partners may get reduced but not less than 
two. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 31 of 60                                                                                                      
 
(ii) In case one of the Consortium partners who meets the requirements of clause 1.3.2 except for 
generator would also be considered provided it associates with a Qualified Generator 
Manufacturer who meets the requirements of clause 1.1.1(b) fully in respect of generator. In Such 
a case Qualified Generator Manufacturer shall also be the executant of the Consortium Agreement. 
In such a case the number of executants of the Consortium Agreement should not exceed four (4).   
(iii) Consortium partners shall collectively be required to furnish “Contract Performance Security” 
regardless of their share and role in the Consortium. However, each Consortium partner shall 
necessarily furnish at least 10% of the “Contract Performance Security”. 
(iv) The Consortium shall offer only the type of steam generator and type of water wall tubing, and 
the steam turbine generator for which it or its Consortium partner(s) is qualified. 
(v) The work executed by the Consortium will be considered for the purpose of the qualification 
specified at 1.3.1, 1.3.2 & 1.3.3 provided the same Consortium partner who has executed the 
qualifying works is getting associated in the Consortium of this EOI. 
(vi) Consortium partners (including the lead partner) shall be required to submit additional Bank 
Guarantees (BGs) for a total amount of 2% of total contract price for successful 
integration/interfacing of SG, TG and BOP systems. However, each Consortium partner shall 
necessarily furnish Bank Guarantees (BGs) for at least 0.5% of the total contract price for successful 
integration/interfacing of SG, TG and BOP systems. In case qualified generator manufacturer is an 
additional consortium partner, then qualified generator manufacturer shall necessarily furnish  
bank guarantee (BG) for at least 0.1% of total contract price. However, the aggregate value of all 
such BGs furnished by the Consortium Partners, including the Qualified Generator Manufacturer, 
shall remain limited to 2% of the Total Contract Price. 
 (vii) The Lead Partner shall be authorised by the Consortium Partners to incur liabilities and receive 
instructions for and on behalf of any and all Consortium Partners in connection with the 
Consortium. 
2.0.0 Additional Requirements: 
 
2.1.0 For Steam Generator of 250MW Unit: 
 
 
The following unit features aimed at enhancing the flexibility, efficiency, and environmental performance of 
the Steam Generator are sought. The applicants/QSGM shall furnish details of their capabilities, relevant 
experience, and project references demonstrating their experience in implementing such features, as per the 
information sought in the Annexures or submission through attachments. 
 
(a) Steam Generator shall be designed for daily start-stop/ two-shift operation, load follow mode as specified 
and Technical minimum Load (TML) as 40%, including other plant requirements to give life of not less 
than 25 years. 
(b) Applicants are also required to indicate their  capability and willingness to design units with Technical 
minimum Load (TML) as 30% and 25%. Minimum TML for tendering shall be decided based on EOI 
response. 
(c) Control Range of operation: 40%TMCR to 100% BMCR  
(d) Steam Generator (SG) pressure parts and other thick components shall be designed for creep, fatigue & 
creep-fatigue loading criteria as also per EN-12952-3. The SG and its pressure parts shall be capable to 
withstand increased thermal stresses, differential expansion and cyclic loading. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 32 of 60                                                                                                      
 
(e) The SH/RH outlet headers and other thicker components shall be suitably designed with higher number 
of headers, superior metallurgy, lower thicknesses than conventional sub-critical units. 
(f) Automatic Mill scheduler along with ’Mill Performance Window; to monitor & control the related 
parameters. 
(g) Online Coal Flow Measurement System along with online adjustable coal pipe orifice for dynamic 
optimisation as per industry standard requirements. 
(h) Advance Combustion System (Mills with dynamic classifer, low NOx burners, flame monitoring) with wide 
range of turn down ratio, capable of operating in specified range of operation (i.e. TML to 100% BMCR) 
without any oil support. 
(i) Steam Generator capability of operating on single stream operation of auxiliaries such as PA/FD/ID fans, 
APH etc, at part load conditions based on operating conditions. 
(j) Design of Flue gas re-circulation system. 
(k) Low Pressure Economiser with auto operation/ control at full & part loads. 
(l) Modified Start-up & drain circulation system capable of faster light ups and cyclic operations. 
(m) Plant shall be designed with Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU). 
(n) Steam Generator design shall also be efficient at part loads and shall meet the minimum boiler efficiency 
requirements as specified by CERC.  
(o) Any other feature supporting the flexible, efficient and environmentally compliant unit. 
(p) Steam Generator shall be designed as per the applicable codes and flexible features shall be 
demonstrated using simulation of the proposed steam generator meeting the specified requirements at 
detailed Engg stage.  
 
Note-1: Any information not furnished against the above requirements or as specifically sought in the related 
annexures shall be construed as non-availability of the requisite capability/ experience for the corresponding 
requirement for additional requirements specified above. 
Note-2: Justification for type of Steam Generator offered: The applicant/ QSGM of the EOI shall necessarily 
submit the detailed basis of selection (in write-up form) of proposed Steam Generator and Waterwall 
arrangement over other available alternatives, considering flexibilization requirements mentioned above, duly 
substantiated with relevant technical data and operating references. (Refer Format-A also) 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 33 of 60                                                                                                      
 
Format-A: Justification for proposed Steam Generator 
Justification for type of Steam Generator proposed and comparison wrt performance, reliability and 
flexible/ cyclic mode of operation over the other type. 
Note: Below table is for reference and indicative parameters and comparison between proposed and 
other type of steam generator. Applicant to submit the writeup and comparative justification wrt design 
and other additional requirements. 
 
 
 
Sl. No. Flexible Unit Features Drum Type  Once-Through Type 
1)  Design Ramp Rate (%TMCR/ minute)- 
a) 100% BMCR to 70% TMCR 
b) 70% TMCR to 55% TMCR 
c) 55% TMCR to 40% TMCR 
d) 40% TMCR to 30% TMCR 
e) 30% TMCR to 25% TMCR 
  
2)  Metal Temperature excursion probability 
during- 
i) Ramp-up (TML to 100% TMCR) 
ii) Ramp-down (100%TMCR to 
TML) 
iii) During light-up (faster than 
conventional unit) 
  
3)  Design Control Range (i.e. rated steam 
parameters are maintained) 
%......TMCR to 100%BMCR %......TMCR to 100%BMCR 
4)  Suitable for Daily Start-Stop   
(a) Stress Comparison/ Consumption of 
component life 
i) Drum/ Separator 
ii) SH/ RH Header 
iii) BRP/ BCW Pump Casing etc. 
iv) Daily N1 ramping 
v) Daily N2 ramping 
  
(b) Consumption of Unit/ Thick Component 
during- 
i) Cold Start-up 
ii) Warm Start-up 
iii) Hot Start-ups 
  
(c) Start-up Time for all cases of 3(b) above 
i) Cold Start-up 
ii) Warm Start-up 
iii) Hot Start-ups 
  
5)  Type of waterwall type & comparative 
benefit 
  
6)  NOx emission control   
7)  Boiler Efficiency (%) 
i) at Full load (generally 80% to 
100% TMCR) 
ii) at Part load (generally TML to 
60%TMCR) 
  
8)  Overall Better suited to Flexible/ Cyclic 
Operation. Specify reason for choosing the 
Steam Generator type over the other type. 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 34 of 60                                                                                                      
 
2.2.0 For Steam Turbine Generator of 250 MW Unit:  
 
The following capabilities towards designing the steam turbine Generator for load flexibilization are additional 
for such smaller units – 
 
1. Two shift operation , Cyclic loading, ramping requirement  & Technical Minimum Load (TML) as 40%. 
Applicants are also required to mention their capability and willingness to design units with Technical 
Minimum Load (TML) as 30% and 25%. Minimum TML shall be decided based on EOI response.  
2. Capabilities to design LP Turbine last & second last stage blading to handle moisture and flow separation. 
3. Capabilities to design Steam turbine Generator & its parts for creep, fatigue & creep-fatigue loading 
criteria. The combined creep fatigue damage shall lie within acceptable limits. 
4. Catering to CEA’s flexibilization requirements for load ramping & Technical Minimum Load criteria. 
5. Max Turbine Cycle Heat rate: As per CERC requirements for such unit sizes. 
Note-1: Any information not furnished against the above requirements or as specifically sought in the related 
annexures shall be construed as non-availability of the requisite capability/ experience for the corresponding 
requirement for additional requirements specified above. 
Note-2: Justification for type of Steam Turbine Generator offered: The applicant/ QSTGM of the EOI shall 
necessarily submit the detailed basis of selection (in write-up form) of proposed Steam Turbine Generator, 
considering flexibilization requirements mentioned above, duly substantiated with relevant technical data and 
operating references. 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 35 of 60                                                                                                      
 
Annexure-C 
Make In India Requirements 
 
1. The applicant shall take note of the following as per Department for Promotion of 
Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, 
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order 2017–Revision; 
Dt.16.09.2020 and 19.07.2024 further revisions/ amendments if any and confirm 
compliance. 
2. All equipment/materials/parts/items covered under the scope of supply and services 
in this EOI which are domestically manufactured with sufficient domestic capacity as 
identified in Annexure-I of MOP order dated 16/11/2021 including its subsequent 
revisions shall necessarily be sourced from the class-I local suppliers only as per the 
extant provisions of the Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Orders 
issued by DPIIT and MoP. 
Any violation w.r.t Make in India and minimum local content (MLC) requirements as 
specified shall be sole responsibility of the applicant. 
 
3. Any Applicant (including its Collaborator/Associate/DJU Partner/JV 
partner/Consortium Member/Assignee, wherever applicable) from a country which 
shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid in this EOI only if Applicant is 
registered with the Competent Authority. Further, any Applicant having specified 
Transfer of Technology (ToT) arrangement with an entity from a country which shares 
a land border with India, will be eligible to bid only if the Applicant is registered with 
the competent authority. (Definition/Requirement of ToT shall be as specified in DOE 
OM Ref. No. F.7/10/2021- PPD(1) dated 23.02.2023). However, the said requirement 
of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a land 
border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit or in 
which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
 Further the successful Applicant shall not be allowed to sub-contract services/works 
to any “Sub-contractor” from a country which shares a land border with India unless 
such Subcontractor is registered with the competent Authority. 
It shall be the sole responsibility of Applicant to comply with MII and Public 
procurement guidelines issued time to time by DPIIT/MoF/DoE/MoP including its 
clarifications and amendments. 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 36 of 60                                                                                                      
 
Annexure-2 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT 
1. Name of Applicant Company: 
2. Legal status of the Applicant Company: 
3. Brief description of the Company with details of its business groups/subsidiaries/ affiliates: 
4. Date of Incorporation: 
5. Date of Commencement of Business: 
6. Shareholding details:  
7. Full address including Telephone nos. / Fax nos.: 
a. Registered Office: 
b. Head Office: 
c. Address for communication: 
d. Contact Details: 
e. Office Address in India, if any: 
8. Existing Infrastructure & design facilities – locations, capacity, Complete address. 
9. Information to be furnished: 
Financial Credentials for preceding four financial years as on the date of EOI 
submission –  
i. Average Annual Turnover for preceding four (4) financial years. 
ii. Net worth for the preceding financial year. 
iii. Paid up Share capital for the preceding financial year. 
 
10. We confirm that we are interested in Design, Engineering, Manufacturing, Supply, Erection, 
Testing & Commissioning of efficient Sub-Critical Thermal Power Units of 250 MW size on 
EPC basis suitable for two shift operation & Technical Minimum Load (TML) as -  
a. 40% TML       –     Yes / No 
b. 30% TML       –     Yes / No 
c. 25% TML       –     Yes / No 
11.  We agree that the reference units shall be considered successful based on minimum one-
year completion criteria. We also agree that the successful completion of the project to 
establish performance shall be as stipulated by NTPC for respective system (s) / 
equipment(s). 
12. We confirm that the Steam Generator, Steam turbine & Generator and BOP design & further 
activities will follow specification requirements as well as Codes and Standard as applicable 
& specified. 
 
 
(Sign & Company Seal) 
Authorized signatory 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 37 of 60                                                                                                      
 
Annexure-3 
MANDATORY ESSENTIAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY APPLICANT PERTAINING TO 
MINIMUM QUALIFYING CRITERIA AND ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS MENTIONED AT 
ANNEXURE-B 
 
Mandatory Essential Information: 
    
Applicant Qualifying Route 
(as per Annexure-B) 
Mention Qualifying 
Route 
Additional Data/ Details 
Route 1.1.0  Associate/Collaborator details as applicable 
Route 1.2.0  Associate/Collaborator details as applicable 
Route 1.3.0  Consortium partner Details as applicable  
   
I. For Steam Generator: 
    
  Write Yes/No & provide details with 
attachments. 
S.No. Information/ Details Head YES/ NO Additional Data/ Details 
A 
Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.1.0 as detailed 
below 
 
Associate/Collaborator details 
as applicable 
1 
Name of Applicant/ Collaborator/ Associate 
meeting requirements of Route 1.1.0 (as the 
case may be) 
 
 
2 
Name of JV/Subsidiary (if applicable) 
 
Attach organization details along 
with QSGM Equity details as per 
Note for Clause 1.1.0 
 
3 
The applicant or its associate/ collaborator 
meeting the requirements of Route 1.1.0 has 
at least one no. of unit, which is- 
 Specify Name of Plant/ 
Unit meeting the 
qualifying criteria 
(a) Designed Yes/ No  
(b)  Engineered Yes/ No  
(c)  Manufactured Yes/ No  
(d)  Got Manufactured Yes/ No  
(e)  Erected Yes/ No  
(f)  Supervised Erection Yes/ No  
(g)  Commissioned Yes/ No  
(h)  Supervised Commissioning Yes/ No  
(i)  
Pulverised Coal fired Yes/ No Specify coal type, Ash content, 
GCV 
Specify Type of Steam generator, if 
not PC fired 
(j)  Type of Steam Generator   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 38 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 i. Drum Type-Single Pass (Tower type) Yes/ No  
 ii. Drum type – two pass arrangement Yes/ No  
 
iii. Once Through – Single Pass (tower 
Type) Yes/ No  
 iv. Once through – two pass arrangement Yes/ No  
 having Reheat  Yes/ No  
(k)  Having water wall tubing type   
 i. Spiral wound (inclined) Yes/ No  
 ii. Vertical plain Yes/ No  
 iii. Vertical rifled type Yes/ No  
 iv. Any other type, specify Yes/ No  
(l) 
i. of at least 150MW Capacity Yes/ No Specify Unit capacity in 
MW  
 
ii. of at least 450 TPH steam capacity  Specify Steaming 
capacity in TPH 
(m) 
in successful operation for period of at 
least one year prior to the date of EOI 
publication 
Yes/ No Specify Commissioning 
date, & successful 
operation years. 
   4 
Specify range of Steam Parameters (SHO 
Pr/ SH Temp/ RH Temp., MS Pr/ MS 
Temp/ HRH Temp) for the reference unit 
referred at sl .no A.3 above 
 
 
5 
Reference unit capability to operate with 
Variable pressure operation (VPO) Yes/ No Mention the VPO range 
6 
Details as per regular Indian manufacturer 
of coal fired steam generators  Provide Name & other 
details 
(a) No. of steam generators manufactured   
(b) Type of steam generators manufactured   
  (c) Fuel Type   
(d) Steam generators size & capacity   
(e ) Other details   
7 
Design & manufacturing capabilities & 
infrastructure owned by the applicant   
a 
Software Tools & Licenses (Name, License 
validity)   
b 
Whether the source-codes of the necessary 
design tools/software’s available for boiler, 
furnace & associated system design. 
 
 
c 
Experience in Pulverized Coal fired Steam 
Generators 
i. Drum type, single pass arrangement 
(Tower type) sub-critical unit and its min. & 
max. capacity (MW) range. 
 ii. Drum type, Two pass arrangement sub-
critical unit and its min. & max. capacity 
(MW) range. 
 
 
YES/ NO 
 
 
YES/ NO 
 
 
Provide reference of Applicants 
or its Technology Provider/ 
QSGM, of at least one unit 
(Capacity>150MW ) for each 
type declared, in India or 
Overseas. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 39 of 60                                                                                                      
 
iii. Once-Through type single pass 
arrangement (Tower type) sub-critical unit 
and its min. & max. capacity(MW) range. 
 iv. Once-Through type, Two pass 
arrangement sub-critical unit and its 
min. & max. capacity(MW) range. 
YES/ NO 
 
 
YES/ NO 
 
d 
Experience in Design, Engg. of Water wall 
tubing type for units upto 250MW size 
      i. Vertical plain 
      ii. Spiral wound (inclined) 
      iii. vertical plain 
iv. vertical rifled   
 
 
 
YES/ NO 
YES/ NO 
YES/ NO 
YES/ No 
Provide reference of 
Applicants or its 
Technology Provider/ 
QSGM, of at least one 
unit (Capacity>150MW ) 
for each type declared, in 
India or Overseas. 
e 
Experience in bio-mass co-firing with 
pulverised coal  
i. biomass co-firing up to 10%wt 
ii. biomass co-firing up to 20%wt 
iii. biomass co-firing up to 30%wt 
iv. biomass co-firing greater than 30% 
 
 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Add reference plant 
information. 
Specify type of biomass, 
max. % of cofiring by 
wt% 
8 Location of design capabilities/software’s & 
infrastructure facility   
9 
Technical Expertise in the relevant field of 
qualifying criteria as per Annexure-B   
a Experts/ Engineers (with Qualification)   
b 
Experience (in years) of Engineers at A.8(a) 
above   
c 
Mention specific features for Two shift 
operation & TML requirements.   
10 
Data Security (Policy docs, compliance 
certificates etc)   
11 
Areas/ Industrial Sectors of successfully 
completed projects   
11A 
Successfully delivered projects in 
pulverized coal (PC) fired thermal power 
plants (>=150 MW units) 
YES/ NO 
 
11B 
Successfully delivered projects (PC fired 
steam generators >=450TPH capacity) 
other than thermal power plants. 
YES/ NO 
 
12 
Name of Steam Generator Technology 
collaborator/ Licensor   
13 Manufacturing Details of coal fired steam 
generators   
14 Scope division between the applicant and 
Technology collaborator.   
15 Mention design collaborator/ technology 
partner for load cycling (Two shift operation 
& TML) related design requirements (attach 
credentials of the technology company 
proposed with credentials) 
  
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 40 of 60                                                                                                      
 
B Information related to Additional 
requirement (Annexure-B, cl. 2.1.0) 
Provide 
Yes/No with 
capability 
details 
Refer Annexure-B ADDITIONAL 
REQUIREMENTS 
Provide References wrt declared 
capability or actual achieved 
experience details 
1 Design of SG with Two shift/ Daily Start-stop 
operation capability Yes/ No  
2 Design of SG having TML as  
i. 40% TMCR, 
ii. 30% TMCR  
iii. 25% TMCR 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
 
3 SG designed for max. number of start-stop 
cycles, considering 25 years of life w.r.t.  
a) Two shift/ daily start stop operations 
b) at least 40% TML  
 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
 
4 Mention Ramp-rates (% of TMCR per 
minute) for the unit   
5 Capabilities to design pressure parts for 
creep, fatigue & creep-fatigue loading 
criteria as also per EN-12952-3. 
Yes/ No  
5A In case of any other standard/code used for 
design of creep-fatigue loading criteria for 
pressure parts, Specify the relevant 
standard/ code. 
Yes/ No  
6 Design of SG having Control Range of- 
a) 60%TMCR to 100% BMCR 
b) 50%TMCR to 100% BMCR 
c) 40%TMCR to 100% BMCR 
d) 30%TMCR to 100% BMCR 
Any other, specify range 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
 
7 Max. no. of Finish SH/ Finish RH Headers 
(each) designed for a 150 - 250MW unit- 
a) 2 
b) 3 
c) 4 
d) If Other than above, specify details 
 
Yes/ No  
Yes/ No  
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Also, include material of such 
headers and rated SH/RH steam 
temp.  
7A In case of unit size> 250MW unit in sl. No. 
B.7 above, specify details of no. of Finish 
SH/RH header & material along with rated 
temp 
Yes/ No 
 
 
8 Burners designed/ supplied providing stable 
combustion (without any secondary fuel 
support) with unit operating at TML declared 
in sl. No. 2 above. 
Yes/ No 
 
Specify unit size and TML 
8A If No, in sl no. 8 above, provide min. load 
(%TMCR) upto which stable combustion 
persisted without any secondary fuel/ oil 
support. 
Yes/ No 
 
 
Specify unit size and TML 
9 Whether any pc fired unit supplied with 
Online Coal Flow Measurement System 
Yes/ No 
 
Include details, along with 
measurement accuracy (%) of 
measurement of such system. 
9A Envisaged/ provided No. of Mills for 250MW 
/ comparable flexible unit: 
a) 6 or higher 
b) 5 
 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 41 of 60                                                                                                      
 
c) 4 or lower Yes/ No 
9B No. of mills at full load corresponding to mills 
declared at 9A: 
  
9C No of mills at TML: 
a) 40% 
b) 30% 
c) 25% 
  
9D Envisaged firing type for 250MW / 
comparable flexible unit: 
a) Corner fired 
b) Twin-vortex corner fired 
c) front/ rear fired 
 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
For other type, specify. 
10 Whether any pc fired unit supplied/ 
retrofitted with Automatic Mill scheduler, Mill 
window etc. 
Yes/ No 
 
Provide details 
11 Whether any pc fired sub-critical unit 
supplied with Flue Gas Re-circulation  
Yes/ No 
 
Provide details 
12 Whether any pc fired sub-critical unit 
supplied/ retrofitted with Low Pressure 
Economizer 
Yes/ No 
 
Also include details efficiency 
gain, temperature drop in FG 
across LPE, min. LPE inlet/ exit 
temperatures 
13 Whether any upgradation done in start-up & 
drain circulation system wrt conventional SG 
design/ supplied, in order to facilitate 
flexibilization  
Yes/ No 
 
Provide details 
14 Whether any SG designed/ supplied 
required/ fitted with sub-critical unit supplied 
with Condensate Polishing Unit (CPU) –  
v. To meet the required water quality. 
vi. To facilitate faster unit start-ups. 
 
 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
Provide details 
15 Type of Nox control system designed for 
sub-critical units< 250MW 
a) Staged Combustion having one 
level SOFA 
b) Staged Combustion having two 
level SOFA 
c) Low Nox burner 
 
Yes/ No 
 
Yes/ No 
Yes/ No 
 
16 Whether any supplied SG is designed to 
operate in single stream operation of 
auxiliaries (such as PA, FD, ID fans, APH 
etc.) at part load conditions. 
Yes/ No  
17 Whether supplied any simulation 
programme for assessment/ upgrade of 
steam generator design and to assess the 
flexibility and other designed features, 
capabilities. 
Yes/ No If Yes, Provide details through 
separate attachment 
18 Additional proven design features towards 
improving the flexibilization & heat rate of the 
units 
Yes/ No If Yes, Provide details through 
separate attachment 
19 Details of the design features with Two shift 
operation & TML as 40%, 30% and 25% 
Yes/ No 
 
If Yes, Provide details through 
separate attachment 
20 Proposed/ Existing Tie-ups with 
Collaborators/ Technology Partners/ 
Yes/ No 
 
Provide Name of Proposed 
Collaborator and add credentials 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 42 of 60                                                                                                      
 
Reputed Expert Organizations for 
Consultation, Implementation, and Vetting of 
Flexible Unit Design and similar Additional 
Requirements features in a Steam 
Generator 
of such collaborator in separate 
attachment. 
21 Whether any design interventions by 
applicant (self or in technology agreement) 
for making the sub-critical units capable of 
meeting the CEA requirements of flexible 
units specifically the following but not limited 
to- 
 Specify details 
a)  Drum Thickness    
b)  Enhancing Creep-fatigue life of components   
c)  Firing system (mills, burners etc.)   
d)  Advanced Process control   
e)  Any other interventions   
22 Performance data (100%, 60%, 55%, 40%, 30% 
& 25% of TMCR 
  
a)  Boiler efficiency    
b)  TG Cycle heat rate    
c)  Aux. Power Consumption.    
d)  Cycle efficiency %   
 
Note: Any information not furnished/ partial information provided against the above requirements shall be construed 
as non-availability of the requisite capability/ experience for the corresponding requirement. 
 
   II. For Steam Turbine Generator: 
  Write Yes/No & provide details with attachments 
S.No. Information/ Details Head Details Additional Data 
A Information related to Qualifying Criteria   
1 Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.1.0 as detailed below  Refer Annexure-B for 
qualifying requirements 
2 Name of Applicant/ Collaborator/ Associate meeting 
requirements of Route 1.1.0 (as the case may be)   
2 a) 
Name of JV/Subsidiary (if applicable) 
 
Attach organization 
details along with 
QSTGM Equity details 
as per Note for Clause 
1.1.0 
 
3 
The applicant or its associate/ collaborator meeting 
the requirements of Route 1.1.0 has at least one 
no. of unit, which is- 
 Specify Name of 
Plant/ Unit meeting 
the qualifying criteria 
a Designed Yes/ No  
b Engineered Yes/ No  
c Manufactured Yes/ No  
d Got Manufactured Yes/ No  
e Erected Yes/ No  
f Supervised Erection Yes/ No  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 43 of 60                                                                                                      
 
g Commissioned Yes/ No  
h Supervised Commissioning Yes/ No  
4 Details for Steam Turbine Generator   
4.1 
Description & Name of project for Steam turbine 
Generator 
 Specify Name of 
Plant/ Unit meeting 
the qualifying criteria 
4.2 Name of Client with full address, FAX No. & Tel No.   
4.3 Purchase Order/ Contract No./ LOA No. and Date   
4.4 Name of Thermal Power Station & Location   
4.5 
Whether aforesaid Thermal Power station is fossil 
fuel fired   
4.6 No. of unit(s) of Turbine set supplied to the station   
4.7 Make of Turbine   
4.8 Number of cylinders (HP/IP/LP)   
4.9 Module number/description (HP/IP/LP)   
4.10 
Steam Parameters at turbine inlet 
a. Main steam pressure (kg /cm 2 (abs)) 
b. Main steam Temperature (° C) 
c. Reheat Steam Temperature (° C) 
  
4.11 
 
Whether the Turbine Set 
a)  is of Reheat type 
b)  consists of separate HP, IP and LP cylinders  
c)  is Tandem Compound 
d ) directly coupled with generator  
Yes/No 
Yes/No 
Yes/ No 
Yes/No 
 
4.12 Capacity in MW of each unit   
4.13 
Condenser Type : 
a) Water Cooled 
b) Air Cooled 
c) Design vacuum 
  
4.14 
Whether the scope of work executed for the 
aforesaid Steam Turbine Set included 
a) Design 
b) Engineering 
c) Manufacturing 
d) Erection 
e) Supervising Erection 
f) Commissioning 
g) Supervising Commissioning 
  
4.15 
Steam Turbine Set 
a) Designed by 
b) Engineered by 
c) Manufacture by 
d) Erection by 
e) Supervision of Erection by 
f) Commissioning by 
g) Supervision of Commissioning by 
  
4.16 Actual Date of commissioning   
4.17 Date of commencement of successful operation   
4.18 
Factory /Works where the Steam turbine rating equal 
to 150 MW or more was Manufactured, assembled & 
tested 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 44 of 60                                                                                                      
 
4.19 
Factory/works where the offered Steam Turbine is 
proposed to be Manufactured, assembled and 
tested 
  
4.20 
Whether work executed under technology 
collaboration, (yes/no) 
If Yes,  
a. Name of Technology collaborator 
b. Validity of Technology Transfer Agreement 
(mention Date) 
 
  
4.21 Execution Time (in months):   
4.22 
Certificate from the Owner of the reference plant that 
the aforesaid Steam Turbine Generator Set with 
their Associated Auxiliaries and facilities is in 
successful operation for a period of not less than 1 
year prior to last date of EOI submission  
  
B 
Information related to Additional requirement 
(Annexure-B, cl. 2.2.0) Provide 
Yes/No with 
capability 
details 
Refer Annexure-B 
ADDITIONAL 
REQUIREMENTS 
Provide References wrt 
declared capability or 
actual achieved 
experience details 
5 
Additional requirement (Annexure-B, cl. 2.2.0) 
w.r.t. Steam Turbine   
5.1 
Mention & attach specific design features for Two 
shift operation   
5.2 
Mention max. number of start-stop cycles, 
considering 25 years of life wrt  
a) Two shift/ daily start stop operations 
b) at least 40% TML 
  
5.3 
Mention Ramp-rates (% of TMCR per minute) for the 
unit   
5.4 
Mention specific design feature steam turbine Cyclic 
loading, ramping requirement & Technical Minimum 
Load (TML) as 40%, 30% and 25%. 
  
5.5 
Mention specific design feature of steam turbine LP 
Turbine last & second last stage blading to handle 
moisture and flow separation. 
  
5.6 
Mention capabilities to design Steam turbine 
Generator & its parts for creep, fatigue & creep-
fatigue loading criteria 
  
5.7 
Details of collaborator/technology partner for Two 
shift operations, & Technical Minimum Load (TML) 
as 40%, 30% and 25% 
  
5.8 
Plant details wherein the above Two Shift 
operation & TML interventions carried out   
i No. of years in successful operation   
ii Ramp rate designed & achieved   
iii TML designed & achieved   
a 40%   
b 30%   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 45 of 60                                                                                                      
 
c 25%   
iv. 
Specify the following details of unit mentioned at 
sl.no, 5.8 above   
a Turbine inlet Pressure   
b Main Steam Inlet Temp   
c IPT inlet Temp (HRH Temp.)   
d Steam turbine TG Cycle Heat Rate   
e Design vacuum    
5.9 
Additional proven design features towards improving 
the flexibilization & heat rate of the units    
5.10 
Whether any design interventions by applicant (self 
or in technology agreement) for making the sub-
critical units capable of meeting the CEA 
requirements of flexible units specifically the 
following but not limited to- 
  
a HP, IP & LP Rotors and Casings    
b Steam Turbine Valves   
c Changes in Turbine Control/Governing system   
d Exhaust hood spray   
5.11 
Performance data (100%, 60%, 55%, 40%, 30% & 
25% of TMCR)   
i Boiler efficiency    
ii TG Cycle heat rate    
iii Aux. Power Consumption.    
iv Cycle efficiency %   
Note: Any information not furnished/ partial information provided against the above requirements shall be 
construed as non-availability of the requisite capability/ experience for the corresponding requirement.  
III.    Details for Generator 
1 Details for Generator   
1.1 
Description & Name of project for Generator  Specify Name of 
Plant/ Unit 
1.2 Name of Client with full address, FAX No. & Tel No.   
1.3 Purchase Order/ Contract No./ LOA No. and Date   
1.4 Name of Thermal Power Station & Location   
1.5 
Whether aforesaid Thermal Power station is fossil 
fuel fired Yes/ No  
1.6 No. of unit(s) of Generator set supplied to the station   
1.7 Make of Generator   
1.8 Model No of Generator   
1.9 MVA rating of Generator   
1.10  MW rating of Generator   
1.11 Rated Voltage of Generator    
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 46 of 60                                                                                                      
 
1.12 
Cooling Medium (e.g. Water, hydrogen etc) 
 
(i) Stator Core  
(ii) Stator Winding  
(iii) Rotor 
  
1.13 Number of shaft mounted fans   
1.14 
Thermal Class of Insulation 
 
(ii) Stator  
(iii) Rotor 
  
1.15 Type of Excitation System   
1.16 
Details of Core & Core support system (e.g. Spring 
type/ Rigid type etc.)   
1.17 
No. of designed start/stops of the Generator over its 
entire life to meet the requirement of two shift 
operation 
  
1.18 
Whether the scope of work executed for the 
aforesaid Generator Set included 
a) Design 
b) Engineering 
c) Manufacturing 
d) Testing  
e) Erection 
f) Supervising Erection 
g) Commissioning 
h) Supervising Commissioning 
  
1.19 
Generator Set 
a) Designed by 
b) Engineered by 
c) Manufacture by 
d) Tested by 
e) Erection by 
f) Supervision of Erection by 
g) Commissioning by 
h) Supervision of Commissioning by 
  
1.20 Actual Date of commissioning   
1.21 Date of commencement of successful operation   
1.22 
Factory /Works where the Generator rating equal to  
150 MW or more was Manufactured, assembled & 
tested 
  
1.23 
Factory/works where the offered Generator is 
proposed to be Manufactured, assembled and 
tested 
  
1.24 
Whether work executed under technology 
collaboration, (yes/no) 
If Yes,  
a. Name of Technology collaborator 
b. Validity of Technology Transfer Agreement 
(mention Date) 
Whether Deed of Joint Undertaking (DJU) with 
Technology collaborator submitted (Yes/No) 
  
1.25 Execution Time (in months):   
1.26 
Latest/ recent certificate from client that the 
generator with above technical parameters is in   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 47 of 60                                                                                                      
 
successful operation for a period of not less than one 
(1) year prior to the date of publication of this EOI 
(actual time period to be mentioned) and caused no 
serious problem in past, is enclosed at 
Attachment.... 
1.27 
List of above Generators (with date of supply) 
already manufactured, assembled & tested in the 
factory/ works mentioned at S.No.(1.22) above is 
enclosed at Attachment.... 
 
  
S.No. Information/ Details Head Details Additional Data 
IV 
Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.2.0   Attach details 
IV. A Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.2.0 as detailed below   
1 Experience details of Applicant meeting the 
requirement of Route 1.2.0, for at least one unit 
which is- 
Name of EPC 
Applicant  
 
a Executed on EPC basis Yes/ No  
b having 150MW capacity Yes/ No  
c pc fired unit Yes/ No  
d having steam generator Yes/ No  
e having steam turbine generator Yes/ No  
f along with aux. equipments  Yes/ No  
g having ESP/ bag filters Yes/ No  
h having switchyard Yes/ No  
i having CHP Yes/ No  
j Having Ash Handling plant Yes/ No  
k Having cooling towers Yes/ No  
l Having condenser cooling water system Yes/ No  
m Type of Steam generator   
n Type of Steam Turbine Generator   
o Including associated civil works for the above 
equipment and systems Yes/ No  
p In successful operation for a period of not less than 
one (1) year prior to the last date of submission of 
EOI. 
Yes/ No  
q Unit Size in MW for which above work carried out    
2 Specify the following details of unit mentioned at 
sl.no, V.A 1 above   
a Superheater Outlet Pressure  In ksc-g 
b SH Temp.  In deg-C 
c RH Temp.  In deg-C 
d Steam Generator Efficiency    
e Aux. Power Cons. %   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 48 of 60                                                                                                      
 
f Cycle efficiency %   
g Whether unit has Condensate Polishing Unit Yes/ No  
h Turbine inlet Pressure   
i Main Steam Inlet Temp   
j IPT inlet Temp (HRH Temp.)   
k Steam turbine TG Cycle Heat Rate    
l Design vacuum    
m No. of sub-cr. Units supplied  Details with MW 
3 
Details of Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer 
meeting the requirements as indicated at clause 
1.1.1(a). 
  
4 
Details of Qualified Steam Turbine Generator 
Manufacturer meeting the requirements stipulated at 
1.1.1(b) in conjunction with 1.1.4 (as applicable) 
  
5 
Details of Qualified Generator Manufacturer (QGM)  
in case Applicant’s associate is steam turbine 
manufacturer meeting the requirements of clause 
1.1.1 (b) except for generator 
  
6.  
Details of JV/Subsidiary of Qualified Steam 
Generator Manufacturer   Attach organization 
details along with 
QSGM Equity details  
as per Note for Clause 
1.1.0 
7.  
Details of JV/Subsidiary of Qualified Steam Turbine 
Generator Manufacturer  Attach organization 
details along with 
QSTGM Equity details 
as per Note for Clause 
1.1.0 
 
8. 
Experience details as per Sl no 3 above  Details to be filled 
inline with data 
required as per Sl no I 
9. 
Experience details as per Sl no 4 above  Details to be filled 
inline with data 
required as per Sl no II 
10. 
Experience details as per Sl no 5 above  Details to be filled 
inline with data 
required as per Sl no III 
S.No. Information/ Details Head Details Additional Data 
 
Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.2.0    
IV. B 
Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.2.0 as detailed below   
1 
As per Route 1.2.0, Details of the Industrial Project 
carried out on EPC basis in the area-  
(a) Power 
(b) Steel 
(c) Oil and Gas 
(d) Petro Chemical 
(e) Fertilizer 
 Attach details 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 49 of 60                                                                                                      
 
(f) FGD 
(g) Cement 
(h) Any other process industry  
2 Unit Size in MW for which above work carried out  Attach details 
3 
Reference plant which is in successful operation for 
a period of not less than 1 year prior to last date of 
EOI submission  
 Attach details 
4 
Whether cumulative value of EPC orders executed 
is INR 10000 million or more Yes/No Include supporting 
document 
5 
Whether Single EPC contract executed value is INR 
4000 million or more Yes/No Include supporting 
document 
6 
Details of Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer 
meeting the requirements as indicated at clause 
1.1.1(a) 
  
7 
Details of Qualified Steam Turbine Generator 
Manufacturer meeting the requirements stipulated at 
1.1.1(b) in conjunction with 1.1.4 (as applicable) 
  
8 
Details of Qualified Generator Manufacturer (QGM)  
in case Applicant’s associate is steam turbine 
manufacturer meeting the requirements of clause 
1.1.1 (b) except for generator 
  
9 
Details of JV/Subsidiary of Qualified Steam 
Generator Manufacturer   Attach organization 
details along with 
QSGM Equity details  
as per Note for Clause 
1.1.0 
10 
Details of JV/Subsidiary of Qualified Steam Turbine 
Generator Manufacturer  Attach organization 
details along with 
QSTGM Equity details 
as per Note for Clause 
1.1.0 
 
11 
Experience details for Sl no 6 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no I 
12 
Experience details for Sl no 7 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no II 
13 
Experience details for Sl no 8 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no III 
 Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.2.0   
IV. C  
Details to be filled by applicant meeting the 
requirement as per Route 1.2.0 as detailed below   
1 Name of Applicant meeting requirements of Route 
1.2.0 (as the case may be)   
1.1 
Mention whether scope of work executed under 
Clause 1.2.0 by itself or Under Collaboration (Details 
of Collaborator-if applicable)  
Separate details for 
Steam generator, 
Steam turbine and 
Generator to be 
furnished 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 50 of 60                                                                                                      
 
2 
The applicant meeting the requirements of Route 
1.2.0 has at least one no. of unit, which is-  Specify Name of Plant/ 
Unit meeting the 
qualifying criteria 
a Designed Yes/ No  
b Engineered Yes/ No  
c Manufactured Yes/ No  
d Got Manufactured Yes/ No  
e Erected Yes/ No  
f Supervised Erection Yes/ No  
g Commissioned Yes/ No  
h Supervised Commissioning Yes/ No  
i Whether PC fired Yes/ No  
j Unit Size in MW for which above work carried out   
k 
In successful operation for a period of not less than 
one (1) year prior to the last date of submission of 
EOI. 
  
l Type of Steam generator   
m Type of Steam Turbine Generator   
4 
Details of Qualified Steam Generator Manufacturer 
meeting the requirements as indicated at clause 
1.1.1(a). 
  
5 
Details of Qualified Steam Turbine Generator 
Manufacturer meeting the requirements stipulated at 
1.1.1(b) in conjunction with 1.1.4 (as applicable) 
  
6 
Details of Qualified Generator Manufacturer (QGM)  
in case Applicant’s associate is steam turbine 
manufacturer meeting the requirements of clause 
1.1.1 (b) except for generator 
  
7 
Details of JV/Subsidiary of Qualified Steam 
Generator Manufacturer   Attach organization 
details along with 
QSGM Equity details 
as per Note for Clause 
1.1.0 
8 
Details of JV/Subsidiary of Qualified Steam Turbine 
Generator Manufacturer  Attach organization 
details along with 
QSTGM Equity details 
as per Note for Clause 
1.1.0 
9 
Experience details as per Sl No 4 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no I 
10 
Experience details as per Sl No 5 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no II 
11 
Experience details as per Sl No 6 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no III 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 51 of 60                                                                                                      
 
V Details of Consortium as per Route 1.3.0  Attach details 
1 
Consortium partners meeting the requirements as 
indicated at clause 1.1.1(a) 
 OR  
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of Qualified Steam 
Generator Manufacturer as the case may be along 
with requirements stipulated at Note for Clause 
1.1.0. 
  
2 
Consortium partners meeting the requirements as 
indicated at clause 1.1.1(b) 
OR   
Indian subsidiary / JV Company of Qualified Steam 
Turbine Generator Manufacturer as the case may be 
along with requirements stipulated at Note for 
Clause 1.1.0. 
  
3 
Consortium partners meeting the requirements as 
indicated at clause 1.2.1   
4 
Details of Qualified Generator Manufacturer (QGM)  
in case one of the Consortium partners who meets 
the requirements of clause 1.3.2 except for 
generator 
  
5 Lead Partner details   
6 
Type of steam generator and the steam turbine 
generator offered    
7 Experience details of Consortium Partners  Attach details 
8 
Experience details of Consortium Partners 
mentioned at Sl no 1 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no I 
9 
Experience details of Consortium Partners 
mentioned at Sl no 2 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no II 
10 
Experience details of Consortium Partners 
mentioned at Sl no 3 above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no IV A/B/C as 
applicable 
11 
Experience details of QGM mentioned at Sl no  4 
above  Details to be filled in 
line with data required 
as per Sl no III 
 
 
Note: 1.  Add additional rows for requisite information. 
2. Any other data pertaining to EPC scope may also be furnished. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 52 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES 
 
 
(SCHEDULES ARE TO BE FILLED UP AND SUBMITTED IN MS WORD 
FORMAT. All CREDENTIALS/SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS RELEVANT TO THE 
SCHEDULES ARE TO BE SUBMITTED PREFERABLY IN SINGLE PDF FILE) 
(All the documents are to be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 53 of 60                                                                                                      
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
 
 
Schedule – 1 
 
(Company Profile and Organization Structure)  
 
 
Name of the Company: 
Registered Address: 
 
Contact Person & Designation: 
 
Postal address for communication: 
Telephone No.: 
Fax No.: 
E-mail address: 
 
 
 
 
 
Document regarding Organization Structure and Ownership to be enclosed. 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           Page 54 of 60                                                                                                      
 
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
 
Schedule – 2 
(TURNOVER OF THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FOUR FINANCIAL YEARS AND 
NETWORTH OF THE COMPANY) 
 
A) We confirm that annual turnover of M/s. ............................ [Applicant] for the 
preceding four financial years is indicated below:- 
 
Sl. No.  Financial Year  Turnover amount (In Million Rs.)  
1.  25-26   
2.  24-25   
3.  23-24   
4.  22-23   
 
B) We confirm that Networth of M/s… ………….[Applicant] for the preceding four financial 
years is indicated below:-  
 
Sl. No.  Financial Year  Networth (In Million Rs.)  
1.  25-26   
2.  24-25   
3.  23-24   
4.  22-23   
 
 
We have enclosed Balance Sheets and Profit & Loss account duly certified by Chartered 
Accountant 
 
We hereby confirm that net worth of M/s ------------------ (Applicant) as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year on the date of publication of the EOI is given below:- 
 
Sl. No.  Description  As on last day of the preceding  
financial  year 
1.  Paid-up  Share  Capital   
2.  Net worth   
3.  % age  of  Net  worth  to  paid-up  Share  Capital   
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 55 of 60  
 
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule - 3 
 
 
 
 
1. Indicative typical layout drawing of coal fired steam generator & associated 
systems to be attached for reference. 
 
2. Indicative typical layout drawing of steam turbine generator & associated 
systems to be attached for reference. 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 56 of 60  
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule - 4 
 
 
Broad time schedule for executing the 1x250 MW, 2x250 MW, 3x250 MW Sub-
Critical Thermal Power Unit - 
 
 
S. No.  
 
Activities/Milestone  Period in months from date of award  
Start Finish  
1. Design & Engineering   
2. Manufacturing   
3. Transportation/Supply   
4. Erection   
5. Commissioning & testing   
6. Completion of facilities   
7. Any other activity   
8 Phase difference between Units   
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 57 of 60  
 (To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule – 5 
 
Additional Information relevant to the work / assignment to be enclosed: 
 
1. Scope division with details between applicant & technology collaborator. 
2. Details of additional design features as per ‘Additional Criteria’. 
3. Suggestions for enhancing participation of technologically capable vendors. 
4. Whether design simulation capabilities like FEM (finite element method analysis), 
CFD etc. exist with the applicants. Provide details. 
5. Any other information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 58 of 60  
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule – 6 
 
 
Details of indicative costing for 1x250 MW, 2x250 MW, 3x250 MW configurations and 
Incremental cost details for of 30% and 25% TML 
 
 
Sl 
No 
Description BTG Cost BOP Cost Total Plant Cost 
1 Applicant to give the indicative Cr per 
MW cost for specified scope of work in 
this EOI 
INR……. Cr/MW INR…… Cr/MW INR   …… Cr/MW 
a 1x250 MW unit configuration    
b 2x250 MW Unit configuration    
c 3x250 MW unit configuration    
2 Applicant to give indicative incremental 
cost for specified scope of work in this 
EOI 
INR …… Cr INR ………Cr INR ………Cr 
a Designing 1x250 MW unit with 30% TML    
b Designing 2x250 MW unit with 30% TML    
c Designing 3x250 MW unit with 30% TML    
d Designing 1x250 MW unit with 25% TML    
e Designing 2x250 MW unit with 25% TML    
f Designing 3x250 MW unit with 25% TML    
3. Number of Sub-critical units of 250 
MW size Applicant can offer            
 
 
---------------------- 
 
 
  
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 59 of 60  
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule – 7 
 
 
Details of Recommended Mandatory Spares 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST) 
 
 Page 60 of 60  
(To be submitted on Company’s Letter Head) 
Schedule – 8 
 
 
 
We declare that we can offer _______ number of Sub-critical units of 250 MW size.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX- FUEL CHARACTERISTICS 
(Annexure-IV-2 Standard Coal Characteristics, Annexure-IV-7(A,B,C,D) Biomass Characteristics) 
 

 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 14 OF 21 
 
 
 
3 ASH ANALYSIS             
3.1 Silica (%)   58.52 57.8 60.12 57.3 61.2 
3.2 Alumina (%)   28.17 27.42 28.67 27.1 29.1 
3.3 Iron Oxide (%)   7.2 7.6 6.03 8 5.5 
3.4 Titania   1.68 1.78 1.56 1.86 1.32 
3.5 Phosphoric 
Anhydride (%)   0.6 0.8 0.46 0.82 0.12 
3.6 Lime (%)   1.36 1.7 1.32 1.84 1.05 
3.7 Magnesia (%)   0.74 1.22 0.5 1.28 0.31 
3.8 Sulphuric 
Anhydride (%)   0.2 0.08 0.3 0.08 0.32 
3.9 Sodium Oxide 
(%)   0.3 0.26 0.5 0.12 0.65 
3.1 Balance Alkalies 
(by difference)   1.23 1.34 0.54 1.6 0.43 
  Total   100 100 100 100 100 
4 ASH FUSION 
RANGE             
  REDUCING 
ATMOSPHERE             
4.1 Initial Deformation 
Temp.(oC) 1150 1100 1200 1100 1200 
4.2 Hemispherical Temp. 
(oC) 1300 1250 1350 1250 1350 
4.3 Fusion Temperature 
(oC) 1400 1400 1400 1400 1400 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 16 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(A) 
 
S.N. Technical Data Unit Specifications for Torrefied Pellet 
1. Base Material  Agro residue: 
Which means the leftover portion of the 
agriculture produce such as 
stubble/straw/stalk/husk of those agro residue 
which are surplus and not being used as animal 
fodder such as paddy, soya, arhar, gwar, cotton, 
gram, jawar, bajara, moong, mustard, seasam, til, 
maize, sunflower, jute, coffee etc., groundnut 
shell, coconut shell, castor seed shell etc., pine 
needle, elephant grass, sarkanda and horticulture 
waste such as dry leaves and trimmings 
generated during the maintenance and pruning of 
trees and plants. 
Wood obtained from tree cutting shall not be 
treated as agro residue and shall be not to be 
used as base material or mixing purpose 
whatsoever. 
 
2. Diameter 
 
mm In case of cylindrical shape: 
Diameter: Not more than 35 mm 
Length: Random 
For other shapes: 
No dimension should exceed 35 mm. 
 
3. Fines % (<3 mm) 
(ARB*) 
 
Wt%  
 
4. Gross Calorific 
Value (GCVARB*) 
 
Kcal/Kg Refer below 
 
5. Moisture (ARB*) 
 
Wt% <= 15% (not more than 15%) 
 
6. Bulk density  Kg 3 600 
 
*ARB  As Received Basis 
  
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 17 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(B) 
 
The sample was prepared by torrefying rice straw at 300 deg C with a holding time of one 
hour. Following analysis are carried out at NETRA using the powdered torrefied rice straw 
samples and the results of various testing for the specific sample is tabulated below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 18 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(C) 
     For the Torrefied Rice Straw Pellets (Prepared by torrefaction of rice straw at 300 deg C 
with holding time of 1 hr) tested at NETRA, the test results are as follows: 
 A.      For Anion (ISO 16994:2016 E-Solid Biofuels- Determination of total content of sulphur 
and chlorine)-reported as wt % dry basis 
a.       Chlorine (Cl): 0.32% 
b.       Fluorine (F) : 0.09% 
B.      For Cation (ISO 16967:2015 E-Solid Biofuels- Determination of major elements - 
Reported as wt % dry basis 
a.       Sodium (Na):      0.31% 
b.       Potassium (K):   2.04% 
Note: The above details as at Annexure-IV-7(A), IV-7(B & IV-7(C) are indicative only and 
shall vary based on the exact raw material and its subsequent processing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 19 OF 21 
 
 
 
Annexure-IV-7(D) 
SPECIFICATIONS FOR NON-TORREFIED BIOMASS PELLETS 
 
S. N.  Technical data Unit Specifications of Non- Torrefied Biomass 
pellets 
1 Base Material  -  Agro residue  
2 Shape and Size  mm  
Cylindrical shape:  
Diameter: Not more than 25 mm   
Length: should not exceed 35 mm.     
3 Fines% (length<3 mm) 
(ARB*) Wt %   
4 Gross Calorific Value       
(GCV-ARB*)   kCal/kg  
Acceptable range  
2800 kCal/Kg to 4000 kCal/kg  
[both inclusive]  
5 Moisture (ARB*) Wt %  Not more than 14%  
Raw Material for pellet 
Manufacturing 
 Base material for pellet manufacturing shall be agro 
residue, which means the leftover portion of the 
agriculture produce, such as 
stubble/straw/stalk/husk of those agro residues 
which are surplus and not being used as animal 
fodder, such as paddy, soya, arhar, gwar, cotton, 
gram, jawar, bajara, moong, mustard, sesame, til, 
maize, sunflower, jute, coffee etc., groundnut shell, 
coconut shell, castor seed shell etc., pine needle, 
elephant grass, sarkanda, bamboo and its by 
product (e.g. Bamboo chips, Cuttings, Bamboo 
Dust etc.) and horticulture waste such as dry leaves 
and trimmings generated during the maintenance 
and pruning of trees and plants.   
 Agro residue-based biomass pellets can be 
manufactured by single base material or mixing 
multiple base materials together.     
 Mixing materials such as by product of woodwork 
factory such as wood chips, saw dust, furniture 
waste etc., bagasse, press mud, molasses or 
natural additives/binder such as lignin, starch, and 
animal dung may also be used with agro residue in 
limited proportion to enhance material properties 
and same shall be explicitly mentioned by supplier 
in consignment details. 
*ARB  As Received Basis 
 
 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 20 OF 21 
 
 
 
NON-TORREFIED BIOMASS CHARACTERISTICS 
 
(A) BIOMASS PELLET CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
S.N. Test Parameters Observed   
Results 
Test Method 
1 Proximate analysis   
 Moisture (ADB), % by mass 5.62 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Ash content, % by mass 18.90 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Volatile matter, % by mass 65.95 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Fixed Carbon, % by mass 9.53 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Gross calorific value, kcal/kg 3855 IS: 1350 (P-2) 1970 
Net calorific value, kcal/kg 3601 IS: 1350 (P-2) 1970 
Ignition temperature, ºC 240 ASTM E1491 
Chlorine, % by mass 0.61 ASTM D4208-13 
2 Ultimate analysis   
 Carbon, % 42.08 IS: 1350 (P-4/sec 1) 1974 
Hydrogen, % 4.79 IS: 1350 (P-4/sec 1) 1974 
Nitrogen, % 0.65 IS: 1350 (P-4/sec 2) 1999 
Sulphur, % 0.02 IS: 1350 (P-3) 1969 
Ash, % 18.90 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Moisture (ADB),, % 5.62 IS: 1350 (P-1) 1984 
Oxygen, % 27.94 By difference 
 
CLAUSE NO. 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
 
LARA SUPER THERMAL POWER PROJECT, 
STAGE-III - (2X800 MW), 
MAIN PLANT PACKAGE 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTION-VI, PART-A 
BID DOC. NO.: CS-8013-001A-2 
SUB SECTION-I-B 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
 
PAGE 21 OF 21 
 
 
 
(B) ASH ANALYSIS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The above are typical specifications and characteristics of biomass pellet, 
however, same shall vary based on the exact raw material and its subsequent 
processing. 
 
 
 
S. N. Test Parameters Observed 
Results 
Test Method  
1 Chemical composition of ash   IS: 1355- 1984/XRF  
 Silica (as SiO2), % by mass 56.41   
Alumina (as Al2O3), % by mass 1.94 
Iron Oxide (as Fe2O3), % by mass 2.05 
Calcium Oxide (as CaO), % by mass 5.68 
Magnesium Oxide (as MgO), % by mass 5.28 
Sodium Oxide (as Na2O), % by mass 0.11 
Potassium Oxide (as K2O), % by mass 16.58 
Sulphate (as SO3), by mass 2.42 
Chloride (as Cl), % by mass 6.73 
Zinc Oxide (as ZnO), % by mass 0.07 
Manganese Oxide (as MnO), % by mass 0.59 
Phosphate (as P2O5), % by mass 2.04 
2 Ash fusion profile (Oxidizing medium)  
Initial deformation temperature  
Softening temperature 
Hemispherical temperature 
Fusion temperature 
 
1111 
1164 
1184 
1208 
ASTM D1857-16 
3 Ash fusion profile (Reducing medium)  
Initial deformation temperature 
Softening temperature 
Hemispherical temperature 
Fusion temperature 
 
1074 
1022 
1051 
1074 
ASTM D1857-16 