NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Qualifying Requirement for Vendor Enlistment for supply of “Fire Fighting Hoses” 
 
 
A)  MEG DETAILS    
 1.0  MEG NO.  16MEC -11  
 2.0  MEG DESCRIPTION  Fire Fighting Hoses  
 3.0  RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE  ER -II  
B)  Technical Criteria of QR:  
1.  The applicant should be a manufacturer of Fire Fighting Hose 
2.  The applicant should have valid BIS License for IS 636 
3.  The applicant should have supplied Fire Fighting Hoses as per IS:636 
 
 
C)  Other Documents to be submitted : In addition to the documents required in support of meeting technical 
requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants 
applying for enlistment:- 
1. Three POs of the highest executed values of similar work during previous five years from the date of 
application. Copy of Invoice / Completion certificate from the concerned buyer/s in support of successful 
execution of supply against the POs to be submitted. 
2. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three completed financial years 
reckoned from the date of application. In case the audited documents are not ready / available, then 
certified copy by a registered practicing Chartered accountant may be submitted. 
3. Latest annual report OR NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate / BIS license / ISO certificate / 
Certificate of registration from the concerned excise department / any other statutory document as a proof 
of being manufacturer of the required material. 
4. Any other documents in addition to the above which the applicant wants to submit. 
D)  NOTE -1 Similar works means:  Supply of Fire Fighting Hoses as per IS:636 in last 5 years  
 
 NOTE -2 The executed value means Basic value of quantity of similar works executed/supplied against  the 
reference PO(also applicable to partly executed POs as on date of application).Where PO value is 
composite(i.e. including Taxes etc.),the applicant to give item-wise break-up of Composite PO 
value mentioning Basic Value, Taxes etc. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTPC LTD 
CC-OS 
EOC NOIDA 
 
Sub: Technical Specifications for Vendor Enlistment for supply of “Fire Fighting Hoses” 
 
 
A)  MEG DETAILS    
 1.0  MEG NO.  16MEC -11  
 2.0  MEG DESCRIPTION  Fire Fighting Hoses  
 3.0  RESPONSIBILITY CENTRE  ER -II  
B)  Technical Specifications :  
 
1.  Hoses should be BIS marked 
2.  Hose to be of Type – A* or Type –B* (as mentioned in Cl- 3.1.1 or 3.1.2 in IS: 636) as mentioned 
in the requirement. 
3.  End connections* shall be Gunmetal/ Aluminum/ SS as mentioned in the requirement. 
4.  Length* of the hoses shall be as per requirement 
 
NB: 
 In the PR, indenter to put  Selection / Value to be put in * marked criteria  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 