NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, WR-II HQ, RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
1 CEG No. TMD- 20 
2 Brief 
description of 
CEG 
Repair of BFP Main pump Cartridge for units up to 500 MW units 
at vendor works  
3 Responsibility 
Centre CPC 
4 Brief scope of 
work 
Indicative Brief  Scope of Work: 
1. This Brief Scope of Work is indicative only. The detailed Scope of Works 
shall be as mentioned in tender enquiry by respective  sites. 
2. A) Dismantling of BFP cartridge, cleaning, carrying out NDT of dismantling 
parts, shaft run-out checks, critical clearance measurement . 
B) Joint inspection after dismantling and finalization of scope of work with 
customer with identification of parts to be replaced. 
c) Repair and replacement of defective parts, NDT of parts as per approved 
quality plan, balancing of complete rotating assembly  and assembly of 
cartridge with maintaining design clearance. 
D) Final inspection of BFP cartridge with customer as per QAP with  
measurement of float and other design clearance. 
E) Supply of spares will be in NTPC scope & all consumables will be in vendor 
scope. 
3. The agency has to complete the job within specified period mentioned in 
tender enquiry. 
4. Machines & T&Ps required for the above jobs as mentioned in tender 
enquiry are within scope of the contractor.  
 
5. Ultrasound test kit, DP Test kit etc will be in the scope of the contractor. 
Test etc required will be carried out by the contractor. NTPC would only 
witness the tests. 
NTPC LTD 
CORPORATE OPERATION SERVICES, WR-II HQ, RAIPUR 
VENDOR ENLISTMENT FOR O&M WORKS PACKAGE ON PAN NTPC BASIS 
CEG NO: TMD-20 
                                         NAME OF CEG: Repair of BFP Main pump cartridge  
 
5 Technical 
Qualifying 
requirements 
The applicant must have refurbished or overhauled 5 no. BFP cartridge  assembly 
for 195 MW & above thermal power units at their workshop during the preceding 
five years from the last date of submission of application for enlistment  
                                           Or 
  The applicant must have manufactured  and supplied  2 no. BFP cartridge 
complete assembly or complete Boiler Feed Pump for 195 MW & above thermal 
power units at their workshop during  the preceding five years from the last date 
of submission of application for enlistment  
Document to 
be submitted 
by Vendor in 
support of 
meeting QR 
Relevant legible PO cop y with detailed scope of work, terms and conditions, 
BOQ and Client’s Completion Certificate/RA bill/ supply invoice / Final deviation 
statement. 
6 Additional 
Documents
 to be 
submitted 
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting Technical Qualifying 
Requirements as stated above, following documents are required to be submitted 
by the Applicants applying for enlistment:  
i. Three POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of similar work (for definition 
see point 7- note 1 below) during previous five years from the date of application 
and Copy of Completion Certificate /RA Bill/ Supply Invoice / Final Deviation 
Statement from the concerned client in support of successful execution of work 
against each of the POs to be submitted.  These are required for execution 
capability calculation. 
ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for the previous three 
completed financial years reckoned from the date of application. In case,  the 
audited documents are not ready / available, then certified copy of financial 
statement by a registered practicing chartered accountant may be submitted.  
iii. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration /ISO certificate, if any 
iv. PF and Service Tax registration certificate 
v. Any other documents  in addition to the above which the applicant wants to 
submit. 
vi. NTPC can ask any further document as required for evaluation of the 
enlistment applications. 
vii. For supplies / works executed for NTPC execution documents can be taken 
from NTPC internal records.  
7 Notes 
Note-1 
Definition of Similar work  (see clause 6 -i above)  for calculation of Execution 
capability 
Repair or  refurbishment of BFP cartridge  or  s upply of new BFP Cartridges or 
supply of BFPs for Thermal Power plants  
 
Material values supplied, if any, within the job of repair / refurbishment shall be 
considered as part of executed value. 
 
Note-2  
Value means basic value of the PO. Where PO value is composite (i.e. including 
Service taxes/ GST etc.), the applicant has to give break -up of composite PO 
value mentioning basic value, taxes etc. Executed value of contracts shall 
include escalation amount on account of price adjustment, if any, in the 
contract. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 