 
               NTPC LTD 
  VDC, RAIPUR 
A CEG Details 
CEG No. CHP-98 
CEG Description Enlistment for CHP Mechanical Maintenance Works (Category II) 
Responsibility Centre VDC 
Enlistment Category Category II (More than INR 4 Cr and up to INR 50 Cr) 
Brief scope of work        
Preventive Maintenance, Breakdown Maintenance and Overhauling works of various equipment 
of coal handling plants like conveyor system (other than belt jointing and its associated works), 
Paddle Feeders, Vibrating Feeder, Crushers, Stacker Reclaimer and Wagon Tippler, Heavy earth 
mover machines like excavator, bulldozer, loaders, Hoist maintenance breakdown and 
preventive maintenance works, CHP Dust suppression system preventive and Breakdown 
maintenance works.  
Note: The detail scope of work & other Terms & conditions would be specified separately in the 
Tender against the specific requirements 
B TECHNICAL CRITERIA OF QR: 
B.1 The applicant should have executed Mechanical Maintenance work(s) for an 
executed value of more than ₹320 lakh (Rupees Three Crore Twenty lakh ) in a single 
contract in a Coal Based Thermal Power Station during the preceding five years from 
the last date of submission of application. 
 
OR 
 
B.2 The applicant should have executed the Mechanical Maintenance work(s) for an 
executed value of more than ₹320 lakh (Rupees Three Crore Twenty lakh) in a single 
contract in Coal Handling Plant of “Coal  Mines/Iron & Steel Plants/Cement 
Plants/Aluminium Plants/Any other Industrial Establishment” during the preceding five 
years from the last date of submission of application. 
 
C Documents to be submitted as proof of meeting the stipulated Qualifying 
Requirements as stated at B) above 
Notes 
1. Copies of the executed purchase order(s) along with the execution proof such as client 
certificate / GST invoices etc.   
 
2. Reference work executed by the bidder as a sub -contractor may also be considered 
provided that the certificate issued by the main contractor is duly certified by the owner 
specifying the scope of work executed by the sub -contractor in support of qualifying 
requirements. 
 
D FINANCIAL 
CRIETERIA 
1. The Net Worth of the applicant shall not be less than 100% of 
the applicant’s paid up share capital as on the last day of the 
preceding financial year. In case the Applicant meets the 
requirement of Net Worth based on the strength of its 
Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company and/or Subsidiaries of 
its holding companies wherever applicable, the Net Worth of 
the Applicant and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding Company 
and/or Subsidiary(ies) of the Holding Company, in combined 
manner should not be less than 100% of their total paid up 
share capital. However individually, their Net worth should not 
be less than 75% of their respective paid-up share capitals. 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = (X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3) X 100% 
 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worth which should not be 
less than 75% of their respective paid -up share capitals and 
Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share capitals 
2. In case the applicant is not able to furnish its audited financial 
statements on stand -alone entity basis, the unaudited 
unconsolidated financial statements of the applicant can be 
considered acceptable provided the applicant further furnishes 
the following documents for substantiation of its qualification. 
3. Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of 
the applicant along with copies of the Audited consolidated 
financial statements of its Holding Company. 
4. A certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as 
per the format enclosed in the application documents, stating 
that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
5. In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial 
year as on the last date of submission of application are not 
available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, 
Applicant is not able to submit the Certificate from practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying its financial param eters, the 
audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding 
the last financial year shall be considered for evaluating the 
financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required 
from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
application documents stating that the financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the last date of submission of 
application and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
Notes for Financial criteria: 
1. Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual 
turnover. 
2. “Holding Company" and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the 
meaning ascribed to them as per Companies Act of India, in 
vogue. 
3. Net worth means the sum of the paid-up share capital and free 
reserves. Free reserve means all reserves credited out of the 
profits and share premium account but does not include 
reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write 
back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Furth er, 
any debit balance of Profit and Loss account and 
miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written 
off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
 
 
 