NTPC LTD 
VEC, CPG-1, USSC 
1 CEG No. ROAD-02 
2 Brief description of 
CEG 
Enlistment of vendors for Construction/ Repair/ 
Maintenance/ Strengthening/ Widening/ Resurfacing/ 
Carpeting of Bitumen Road 
3 Responsibility Centre VEC, CPG-1, USSC 
4 Enlistment Category Category-1 (from Rs. 50 Lakhs. – Rs. 4.0 Crs.) 
5 Brief Scope Of Work Following scope of work shall be covered under Enlistment 
ROAD-02 
  
1. Construction/ Repair/ Maintenance/ Strengthening/ 
Widening/ Resurfacing/ Carpeting of Bitumen Road  with 
associated work 
2. ‘Construction AND/OR Repair AND/OR Maintenance’ of 
road(s) including bitumen road with associated work. 
 
Note:  
a. Following work shall be considered as Associate work’s:  
Road embankment work, Earthwork for road work, Road 
Shoulder works, Retaining wall (RCC, Brick & Stone), Drain, 
Culvert (RCC & Pipe), Underground pipes, Stone pitching, 
bridge, flyover, Flush causeway, Slope protection, Precast 
work, Joint treatment, Road painting, Road marking, Road 
hoardings, Road sign work etc. for completion of any of the 
above works. 
 
b. The above scope of work is indicative only and the exact 
scope of works would be projects/ station/ site specific and 
shall be given in Tender documents. 
 
6. Technical Qualifying 
requirements 
A. Technical Criteria 
  
1.1 The applicant should have executed work of Road(s) 
including Bitumen Road work during last five (05) years as 
on last date of submission of application. 
 
Notes for Clause A above for Qualifying Requirements:  
 
i. Reference work executed by an applicant as a sub-contract 
may also be considered provided the certificate issued by 
main contractor is duly certified by Project Authority/ 
owner specifying the scope of work executed by the sub-
contractor in support of Qualifying Requirements.  
 
ii. The word “Executed" mentioned above means that the 
applicant should have achieved the criteria specified 
above, even if the total contract is started earlier and/or is 
not completed/closed.  
Document to be 
submitted by Vendor 
in support of meeting 
QR 
Relevant PO/ Work Order copy and Client’s Completion 
Certificate/ RA Bill/ Final Deviation Statement. 
7. Additional Documents 
to be submitted 
Other Documents to be submitted:  
In addition to the documents required in support of meeting 
Technical Qualifying Requirements  as stated above, following 
documents are required to be submitted by the Applicants 
applying for enlistment – 
  
i. Three (3) POs with BOQ of the highest executed values of 
“Similar work(s)”, during previous five years from the last 
date of submission of applic ation and Copy of Completion 
Certificate /RA Bill/Final Deviation Statement from the 
concerned client in support of successful execution of work 
against each of the POs to be submitted.  
ii. Audited balance sheet including Profit & Loss statement for 
the previous three completed financial years reckoned from 
the date of application. In ca se the audited results for the 
preceding financial year is no t available, certification of 
financial statements from a practicing-chartered accountant 
is to be uploaded. In case, applicant is not able to submit the 
certificate from practicing chartered accountant certifying 
its financial parameters, the audited results of the three 
consecutive financial years preceding the last financial years 
shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. 
Further, a certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO 
stating that the financial results are under audit as on date 
of application and certificate from the practicing chartered 
certifying the financial parameters are not available.  
iii. NSIC / SSI / MSME registration certificate and PF & 
GST/Service Tax registration certificate.   
iv. PAN, PF and GST registration certificates  
v. Any other documents in addition to the above which the 
applicant wants to submit to get enlisted.  
vi. NTPC can ask other documents as necessary during 
evaluation. 
8. Execution Capability 
Criteria for Enlistment 
The minimum threshold limit for Execution Capability (EC) and 
Average Annual Turnover (AATO) of Enlisted Vendors shall be 
Rs.50,00,000 (Rs. Fifty Lakh).  
 
If any applicant does not submit the required documents so 
that their Execution Capabilit y/ AATO exceeds Rs. 50,00,000 
(Rs. Fifty Lakh), such applican t shall not be considered for 
enlistment even if they meet the qualifying Requirement (QR) 
of subject Enlistment. 
 
 
Execution Capability of the vendor to execute similar work shall 
be calculated based on the values of three POs of highest 
execution value submitted by vendor as defined in the 
following table with an example: 
 
Capability of 
execution of 
Similar Work as 
per PO values 
PO-1 PO-2 PO-3 
PO values 70 60 55 
Execution 
Capability as 
per 
One/two/three 
POs 
70x1.25=87.5 
(E.C. up to 
87.5 L) 
60x2=120 
(E.C. up to 
120 L) 
55x2.5=137.5 
(E.C. up to 
137.5 L) 
Execution 
capability of the 
vendor to 
execute Similar 
Work  
137.5 
(Highest of 87.5, 120 and 137.5) 
Vendor is capable to execute work up to cost 
estimate 137.5 L 
i.e. eligibility limit for enlistment up to cost 
estimate 137.5 L 
 
9. NOTES for Execution 
Capability 
1) “Similar Works” shall mean Road(s) including Bitumen Road 
work. 
2) In case, reference work order(s) submitted by the applicant 
for execution capability includes ‘associated civil works’ for 
road, the same shall also be considered for arriving 
execution capability. 
‘Associated civil work’ may include following(s): Dry lean 
concrete, Granular Sub-Ba se (GSB), Water Bound 
Macadam (WBM), Wet Mix Macadam (WMM) , Road 
embankment work, Earthwork for road, Road Shoulder 
works, retaining wall (RCC, Brick & Stone), Drain, Culvert 
(RCC & Pipe), underground pipes, Stone pitching, bridge, 
flyover, flush causeway, slop e protection, precast work, 
Road painting, road marking, road hoardings, Road sign 
work, Joint treatment etc. for completion of road work. 
3) Executed Value means basic value (excluding taxes) of the 
P.O. pertaining to executed similar work. Where P.O. value 
is composite, the applicant shou ld have to give break-up of 
Composite PO value mentioning Basic Value, taxes etc.   
4) In case the PO includes portion of work of similar work, then 
the work executed with respect to similar work only will be 
considered for arriving executed value. 
5) The word “executed” means the applicant should have 
achieved the criteria specified in the qualifying 
requirements within the preceding Five (5) year period even 
if the contract has been started earlier and/ or is not 
completed/ closed.   
6) For the PO/ WO which were awarded prior to preceding 5 
years from the last date of su bmission of application, the 
value of work executed in the preceding 5 years from the 
last date of submission of application will be considered. 
7) In case of contract(s) under execution as on the last date of 
submission of application, the value of work executed till 
such date will be considered.  
8) Other income shall not be considered for computing annual 
turnover.   
10. Plant covered in 
enlistment Pan NTPC 
 
 
 