DETAILED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
NTPC LIMITED 
(A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) 
CORPORATE CONTRACTS, NOIDA 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
PROCUREMENT OF 2.5 MMT DOMESTIC NTPC’S TELANGANA, SIMHADRI, MOUDA, 
TANDA & NABINAGAR POWER STATIONS 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
Bidding Document No.: CS-0011-011(10)-9 Date: 01.09.2026 
 1.0  NTPC Limited issues Invitation to Bids (IFB) for online bids on Single Stage Two 
Envelope bidding basis (Envelope-I: Techno-Commercial Bid & Envelope-II: Price Bid) 
from eligible bidders for aforesaid Package, as per the Scope of Work mentioned 
hereinafter.  
NTPC Limited (hereinafter referred to as NTPC or the Owner) have requirement of 2.5 
MMT of Domestic Coal of specifications given in Bidding Documents, on ‘FOR 
Destination’ basis at NTPC Power Stations Telangana, Simhadri, Mouda, Tanda & 
Nabinagar and the Station-wise tentative quantities covered under this Package are as 
under: 
Sl. No. Name of NTPC Power Station for 
delivery of Coal 
Quantity in Million Metric 
Tonnes 
1. Telangana 0.5 
2. Simhadri 0.5 
3. Mouda 0.5 
4. Tanda 0.5 
5 Nabinagar 0.5 
Total 2.5 
2.0  SCOPE OF WORK 
The Successful Bidder shall supply domestic coal sourced from Indian coal mine(s) to 
NTPC power stations on “F.O.R Destination” basis through Indian Railways. However, 
such coal mine(s) should be the mines other than CIL/ CIL Subsidiaries, SCCL, OCPL 
and NTPC Limited or any of its subsidiaries, joint ventures, or group companies of NTPC. 
Bidders shall declare as part of their bids, the coal mine(s)/ dispatch point(s)/ Railway 
siding(s) from where they are intending to supply coal, as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents. The bidders shall be required to declare the afore-mentioned details 
separately for each NTPC power station.  
The Successful Bidder shall provide prior intimation to NTPC for supplying domestic coal 
sourced from any other coal mine(s) / dispatch point(s)/ Railway siding(s) which were 
originally not declared in their bid. Supply of coal from such other coal mine(s)/ dispatch 
point(s)/ Railway siding(s) shall be at the awarded price and without any deviation from 
the terms and conditions of the awarded contract. However, in case of any discrepancy, 
the NTPC power station reserves the right to take action in this regard. 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
Further, it is to be mentioned here that washery rejects/ any rejects in any manner will 
not be accepted. 
The successful bidder shall be solely responsible for arranging railway rakes, loading, 
transportation, and delivery at NTPC power stations. The title transfer of coal will be at 
unloading point of NTPC station. Unloading of Coal at NTPC power station end from 
Railway Wagons shall be arranged by NTPC. 
To avoid wet and sticky coal during the monsoon period, the successful bidder shall 
ensure covering of coal loaded wagons with tarpaulin or as per the relevant Environment 
Norms. 
Before loading domestic coal in railway BOBRN rakes, the successful bidder shall ensure 
availability of track hopper facility at the stations 
The detailed Scope of Work shall be as per Section- IV of Bidding Documents. 
3.0 NTPC intends to finance the subject package through own resources. 
4.0 Detailed specifications, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding 
documents, which are available for examination and sale at the address given at para 
12.0 below and as per the following schedule: 
Bidding Document No. CS-0011-011(10)-9 
Start date of downloading of Bidding 
Documents from 01.09.2026 
Gem Bid Nos.  Telangana: GEM/2026/B/7977472 
 Simhadri:  GEM/2026/B/7977995 
 Mouda: GEM/2026/B/7977546 
 Tanda: GEM/2026/B/7978009 
 Nabinagar: GEM/2026/B/7977612 
Last date for receipt of Queries from bidders 
(if any) 08.09.2026, 17:00 hrs. 
Pre-bid conference date & time along with 
link      Shall be conducted through VC on 
MS Teams on 08.09.2026, 1100 Hrs.
(IST) Link for the meeting: Click here 
Last date for receipt of both Techno–
Commercial bid (Envelope-I) and Price bid 
(Envelope-II) Bid Receipt Date & Time      
16.09.2026 up to 1500 Hrs (IST) 
Techno-Commercial bid (Envelope-I) 
opening Date & Time 16.09.2026 at 1530 Hrs (IST) 
Price Bid opening date & time Shall be intimated later 
Cost of Bidding Document Free of Cost 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
 
No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the Employer 
beyond the last date of receipt of Queries as specified above. 
 
Date & Time for opening of Price Bids shall be intimated separately to the bidders whose 
Techno-Commercial Bid are found to be acceptable.  
   
5.0  MSE Benefits: Benefits under PPP 2012 for MSEs are applicable only for (a) Goods 
produced and (b) Services provided by MSEs.  MSE benefits shall not be applicable 
to Trader/Dealer of Goods. For availing MSE benefits, bidder shall confirm that 
Domestic Coal offered / quoted are produced by them. For applicability of MSE benefits, 
bidder shall refer to the Bidding documents. 
 
6.0 Bidder shall declare the name of NTPC Stations for which the bidder is intended to 
participate for supplying the domestic coal. All bids must be accompanied by “Bid 
Security” as AND / OR “UDYAM REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE ” (as applicable) in 
lieu of Bid Security in the form as stipulated in the Bidding Documents: 
 
 
No. of NTPC Stations, the bidder 
is eligible for Award 
Amount and Currency of Bid Security  
One (1) Station INR 2 Cr (Indian Rupees Two crore only) 
Two (2) Stations INR 4 Cr (Indian Rupees Four crore only) 
Three (3) Stations    INR 6 Cr (Indian Rupees Six crore only) 
Four (4) Stations    INR 8 Cr (Indian Rupees Eight crore only) 
Five (5) Stations INR 10 Cr (Indian Rupees Ten crore only) 
 
 ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY AND / OR 
“UDYAM REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE ” (AS APPLICABLE) SHALL BE 
REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE AND SHALL NOT 
BE OPENED. 
 
 The sellers/bidders shall be exempted from furnishing bid security as per GeM 
GTC (GeM 4.0 (Version 1.29) dt 25th March,2026) or latest under category of 
“Sellers exempted from furnishing Bid Security as per GeM GTC ”. Bidders are 
requested to make themselves familiar with the provisions of latest GeM GTC as 
applicable immediately prior to bid submission date, before claiming exemption from 
Bid Submission. 
 
 7.0   QUALIFYING REQUIREMENT FOR BIDDERS   
  
     In addition to qualifying requirements stipulated under section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), 
the Bidder should also meet the technical qualifying requirements stipulated in Clause 
1.0 and financial requirements as stipulated in Clause 2.0: 
 
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1 Bidder should have produced or supplied or a combination of both, a minimum 
quantum of Coal not less than as indicated in the following table, in any continuous 
twelve (12) months in one or multiple contracts during the preceding five (5) financial 
years along with the current financial year as on the last date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening: 
 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
 
No. of NTPC Stations, bidder is 
eligible for award 
The minimum quantum of coal produced 
or supplied or a combination of both* (in 
MMT) 
One (1) Station 0.4 MMT (Four Lakh Metric Tonne) 
Two (2) Stations 0.8 MMT (Eight Lakh Metric Tonne) 
Three (3) or more Stations up to Five (5) 1.2 MMT (Twelve Lakh Metric Tonne) 
 
* For this purpose, the production quantity of a producer will not be again considered in 
the supply quantum. 
 
Notes for Clause 1.0: 
 
i)     Bidder may quote for one or more NTPC stations, and the Technical & Financial     
requirement of Bidder shall be applicable accordingly. 
 
2.0 Financial Criteria: 
 
2.1 The average annual turnover of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening, should not be less 
than the value indicated in the following table: 
 
No. of NTPC Stations, 
bidder is eligible for 
award  
Average Annual turnover of the Bidder 
One (1) Station INR 183 Cr. (Indian Rupees One Hundred and Eighty-Three Crore only)  
Two (2) Stations INR 366 Cr. (Indian Rupees Three Hundred and Sixty-Six Crore only) 
Three (3) Stations INR 549 Cr. (Indian Rupees Five Hundred and Forty-Nine Crore only) 
Four (4) Stations INR 732 Cr. (Indian Rupees Seven Hundred and Thirty-Two Crore only) 
Five (5) Stations INR 915 Cr. (Indian Rupees Nine Hundred and Fifteen Crore only) 
 
 
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the annual turnover criteria, stipulated above 
on its own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover 
requirements as above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the 
last day of the preceding financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share 
capital of the Holding Company. In such an event, the Bidder would be required to 
furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding 
Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board Resolution, as per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and irrevocable financial support 
for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
2.2 (a)      Net worth of the bidder should not be less than 25% (Twenty five percent) of 
the   Bidder’s paid-up share capital as on the last day of the preceding Financial Year 
reckoned from the date of Techno-commercial bid opening. 
And 
 
(b) Net Worth of the bidder should not have eroded by more than 30% in last three 
Financial Years. 
 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
 
However, Clause (b) is not applicable if Net Worth is equal to or more than 100% of Paid-
up Share capital. 
 
In case the Bidder does not meet the Net worth criteria on its own, it can meet the 
requirements of Net worth based on the strength of its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, wherever applicable. In such a 
case, however, the Net worth of the Bidder and its Subsidiary(ies) and/or Holding 
Company and/or Subsidiaries of the Holding Company, in combined manner, should not 
be less than 100% of the paid-up share capital.  However, the individual Net Worth of the 
bidder should be Positive and for others, the Net Worth should be at least 75% of their 
respective Paid-up share capitals 
 
Net worth in combined manner shall be calculated as follows: 
 
Net worth (combined) = [(X1+X2+X3) / (Y1+Y2+Y3)] X 100 
Where X1, X2, X3 are individual Net worths and Y1, Y2, Y3 are individual paid-up share 
capitals 
 
2.3  In case the Bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on stand-
alone entity basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder can 
be considered acceptable provided the Bidder furnishes the following documents for 
substantiation of its qualification. 
 
(i) Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the Bidder along with 
copies of the audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 
(ii) A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format 
enclosed in the bid documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial 
statements form part of the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements of the company. 
 
In cases where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of Techno 
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to 
submit the Certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as on 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
 
Notes for Clause 2.0: 
 
i) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid-up share 
capital and free reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the profits 
and share premium account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation 
of the assets, write back of depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit 
balance of Profit and Loss account and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not 
adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from reserves and surplus. 
 
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” means the aggregate of the 
balances in the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
 
maintained to record regular transactions such as drawings, share of profit, interest on 
capital and other owner/partner related adjustments. The aggregate of balances should 
be positive. 
 
ii) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial 
Statements of the Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual 
turnover. While working out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid 
evaluation, Taxes & Duties separately indicated (if any), in the Profit & Loss account shall 
not be considered. 
 
iii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) 
days prior to the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
iv) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to 
them as per Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time. 
 
v) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered 
Accountant that bidder is not liable for audit under section 44AB. 
 
vi) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited 
financial statement of last three financial years for evaluating the average Annual 
turnover, due to the incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less than 3 
years from the original scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be 
considered and the Average annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below: 
 
a) If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last financial year only, 
then such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the Turnover 
of the last financial year by 1.5. 
 
b) If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last two financial years 
only, then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the sum of 
Turnover of last two financial years by 2.5 
 
vii) For meeting financial criteria stipulated under the Qualifying Requirements, financial 
statements on standalone basis will be considered. 
 
 
Note for Clause (1.0) & (2.0): 
 
(i) For the purpose of this tender, any reference to the date of Techno-commercial bid 
opening for qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned in the qualifying requirements, 
shall be taken as the date of Techno-commercial bid opening specified in the initial 
published NIT/IFB. 
 
. 
8.0  NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for 
Bids without assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no bidder / intending 
bidder shall have any claim arising out of such action. 
 
 9.0  A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by any interested Bidder 
 
DETAILED INVITATION FOR BIDS 
 
 
 
through GeM Portal. Bidders must use their GeM Seller ID and Password for 
participation in the tender. Bidders who do not have GeM Seller ID must register 
themselves as Seller in GeM Portal by visiting Government e-Marketplace Website - 
https://gem.gov.in/. Bidders may also refer to the Seller Help Document for participating 
in the tender which is uploaded on GeM website. 
 
Note: No hard copy of Bidding Documents shall be issued. 
    
     10.0 'Class-I local suppliers’ only are eligible to participate in this tender, as defined in 
the bidding documents/ Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 
2017 and its subsequent amendments/ revisions issued by DPIIT. The bidders may 
apprise themselves of the relevant provisions of bidding documents in this regard 
before submission of their bids." 
 
11.0 Issuance of bidding documents to any bidder shall not construe that such bidder is 
considered to be qualified. Bids shall be submitted online and opened at the address 
given below. Bidder’s attendance during the Techno-Commercial Bid opening and Price 
Bid opening in NTPC premises is not envisaged.   
 
12.0 Address for communication: 
 
       Sr. Manager (CS)/ DGM(CS) 
 NTPC Limited , 6th Floor,  
 Engineering Office Complex, 
 A-8A, Sector-24, NOIDA,  
 Distt. Gautam Budh Nagar, (U.P.),  
 INDIA, Pin-201301  
 Contact No. +91 9425531909/+91 9425823564 
 e-mail: rajendrakumartiwari@ntpc.co.in/sonujikumar@ntpc.co.in  
 Fax No: +91-120-4946525/6578 or at Office 
            Websites: https://gem.gov.in  or www.ntpctender.ntpc.co.in or www.ntpc.co.in   
 
13.0 Registered Office 
 
NTPC Limited 
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area,  
Lodi Road, New Delhi – 110003  
Corporate Identification Number: L40101DL1975GOI007966 
       Website: www.ntpc.co.in 