
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 1 of 11 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)   
for 
Issue of Dry fly ash on Free of Cost, First come First Served Basis with (Transportation 
Cost to be borne by Bidder), from NTPC Darlipali  
 
Ref EOI No.: NTPC/AU-Darlipali/DFA/2026                              Date: 08.09.2026 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information. 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI.  
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B.  
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 2 of 11 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about NTPC Darlipali:  
 
NTPC Darlipali, located at Sundargarh, Odisha having a total installed capacity of 1600 MW, is 
engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power. 
NTPC Darlipali is at a distance of approximately 32 KM from Sundargarh/Jharsuguda district and 
is well connected by road. 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF&CC 
Gazette Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, NTPC Darlipali 
intends to issue some of its Dry Fly Ash on free of cost and on first come first served basis, with 
transportation costs being borne by the Bidders. 
To facilitate this, NTPC Darlipali invites Expressions of Interest for above, for a period of 01 (One) 
year, from its 2 X 800 MW Stage-I units.  
Further details regarding this Expression of Interest (EoI) are as follow:  
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
NTPC Darlipali invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Bidders, for 
utilization of dry fly ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the 
prescribed formats (Part-2 & Part-3).  
Total quantity of fly ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location  Total Quantity 
offered for EoI  Period of Supply 
NTPC DARLIPALI SUPER THERMAL 
POWER STATION,  
Address-PO: Darlipali, Sundargarh Dist. 
Odisha. 770072 
15 Lakh MT 
 
01 Year 
 
 
How to apply 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving dry fly ash from NTPC Darlipali as per the terms and 
conditions of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents 
and duly filled in enclosed “ Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI” and “ Part 3: 
Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder” to the E–Mail address audstps@ntpc.co.in on or before 
17:00 hrs. of 15 th Sep’2026. Alternatively, the documents can be submitted in hard copies to 
AUD office, Administrative Building, 5th Floor, NTPC Darlipali, Sundargarh, Odisha-770072 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 3 of 11 
 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary 
proof as applicable. 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
 
Allocation of dry fly ash Quantity: 
Based on the time of receipt of responses to EoI, dry fly ash shall be allocated to various bidders 
free of cost and on first come first served basis, till the available offered quantity 15.0 LMT is 
exhausted.  However, collecting from NTPC`s issue location and transportation, thereafter, will 
be in the scope of the bidder only. 
 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation against both the Auction Process and this EoI, 
then the Ash quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that Bidder, only after the 
Bidder completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process 
 
 
Daily allocation of fly ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day wise 
requested quantities for each month by the 22nd of the previous month. In case any bidder 
proposes to collect the ash through Rail (subject to Rail Loading Facility being available 
at the station), same shall also be indicated in this requisition. 
2. Based on above, corresponding annual allocated quantity and availability. NTPC shall 
determine and intimate the day wise allocation for each month by 28th of the previous 
month. 
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, NTPC may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC)-
NTPC shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
Dry fly ash shall be issued from the discharge chute of designated ash Silos / Other Suitable 
Locations as decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the respective NTPC Station, on ‘as is 
where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Successful Bidder(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the 
rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This 
adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 30 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of 
entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
  
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 4 of 11 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue of dry fly ash from Darlipali Super Thermal Power Station  
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm)  
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
2.3 
Nature of Business:   
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year  
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility  
Whether capable of handling dry fly ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
3 
Registered Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 5 of 11 
 
4 
Communication Address  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No.  
6 Dry fly ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
Figures:  
Words: 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last dry fly ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No).   
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT)  
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
8 Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport fly ash if issued.  
9 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the dry fly ash, if issued. 
SN  Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 6 of 11 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
11 Any other relevant information  
 
 
 
For and on behalf of    
 
      
Date:  
Place: 
     Signature: 
     (Authorized Representative)  
 
Name: 
 
Designation: 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 7 of 11 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
UNDERTAKING 
To  
NTPC Limited 
Darlipali STPP  
Ash Utilization Department 
5th Floor, Service Building,  
Sundargarh, Odisha- 770072  
 
Subject: Undertaking in response to EOI for the issue of Dry Fly Ash vide EoI 
No.-------------- from NTPC Darlipali. 
 
I / We _________________________________________ (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained 
in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the 
terms and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the 
event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered 
as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as 
and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi- Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, 
nor have been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment, 
Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization 
of adequate number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement 
conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out 
the above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those 
regarding safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill 
all applicable statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the 
contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area 
as directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the collection / 
lifting and utilization of Dry Fly ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / 
Subsidiaries from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the 
course of execution and  for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or 
commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utilization 
Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on 
Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes 
/ Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 8 of 11 
 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / 
we fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furnished by us in this EoI are true 
and authentic  to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that 
if at any stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are 
liable for disqualification from this EoI and also  liable for any other penal action that 
may arise due to the above. 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by NTPC is not a commitment for dry fly ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of 
the EoI. NTPC will, in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of 
the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to Railways, haulage charges 
and other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in Environment friendly 
manner, will be in my / our scope. While I / we understand that the Station may at its 
discretion, consider part / full facilitation for lifting of dry fly ash thru rail – mode / road 
cum rail mode, subject to feasibility and cost economics, I / we also understand that I 
/we shall have no claim whatsoever, in this regard. 
4. Allocation will be done on First Come First Served basis, to the parties who have 
submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect within the stipulated time of 
submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received on receipt of all 
specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit Refundable Security 
Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, along 
with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be refundable as 
per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non-receipt of LOA / LOI acceptance along 
with requisite security deposit and other specified documents required by the 
respective station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to cancel the dry fly 
ash allocation to me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated dry fly ash through auction process also from 
same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ……….    Name ……………………………… 
       ……………………………………… 
Place:  …………………….   Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
       Name of the Company: …….……. 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 9 of 11 
 
       …………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
       …………………………………….…. 
       …………………………………….…. 
       Company Seal: …..………………… 
     ………….…………………………….. 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Dry fly ash shall be issued from the HCSD/DAES Silos or other location 
as decided by EIC to the Successful Bidders (or their authorized 
representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering 
Dry Ash Evacuation System (DAES) Availability, Operational and Safety 
issues. 
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, 
Procedures, Safety norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines 
etc and carry out their activities in full compliance with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission 
from TPP. 
4. Bidders eligible for collecting dry fly ash shall apply for permission for the 
bulkers/covered trucks that they propose to deploy and submit the same 
to EIC along with specified documents like registration, license, 
insurance etc., who shall arrange to verify the same and issue 
permission as per prevailing procedure adopted at the Station.  
5. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule 
or reschedule the lifting of ash from Ash Silos by different agencies, 
which shall be binding upon the Successful Bidders. Successful Bidders 
shall start collecting the Ash as per their respective allocation as per the 
schedule intimated by the EIC. 
6. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders 
and verifiable by TPP.  
7. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to 
termination of contract / agreement / issue of Dry Fly ash as decided by 
EIC  
8. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Bidder(s).  
9. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the 
deployed Vehicles shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and 
also when new and / or  additional vehicles are deployed) and thereafter 
as and when demanded by the EIC for verification. The vehicles shall be 
in fit condition for safe operation. 
10. Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper 
of requisite value, certifying the complete Utilization of issued Dry Fly 
ash, in adherence with the provisions of the extant Notification and other 
applicable statutory regulations. This affidavit, in prescribed format, shall 
be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
11. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non-
compliance of any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, 
Guidelines and Statutory provisions by the successful Bidder or its 
representative / agent, during the course of execution and  for future 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 10 of 11 
 
obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the Successful 
Bidder shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An 
indemnity bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
12. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case 
information / details provided are found false even at a later date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure- B  
(For Dry Fly Ash Circular) 
Page 11 of 11 
 
1. Before submitting the proposal to CHQ for further deliberation by Planning Dte., Land Dte. and 
Engg. Dte.  a detailed study through any sepcilised premier institute may be explored. 
NTPC Reply: The proposal may be incorporated in the MoU with a provision that, prior to 
commencement of ash disposal/filling work, a detailed study through a specialized/premier institute 
may be undertaken. The findings/recommendations of such study may be considered as part of the 
implementation of the work and suitably incorporated in the scope of the contract to be awarded by 
NTPC. 
 
2. The issue is being Soil Mining, the Quarry Permit, Royalty and other regulatory aspect pertaining 
to OMCC(Odisha Minor Mineral Concession) Rules needs to be addressed. 
NTPC Reply:  NTPC, being a responsible Maharatna CPSE, shall ensure compliance with all 
applicable statutory provisions, rules, regulations and guidelines related to thermal power plants and 
ash utilization. 
 
3. Why does NTPC want to spend Rs.280 crs for such filling work and how this will benefit them- 
needs a detailed deliberation. 
NTPC Reply: As per the MoEF&CC Notification dated 31.12.2021, all Thermal Power Plants (TPPs) 
are required to ensure 100% utilization of ash generated during the applicable Environmental 
Compliance (EC) cycle, i.e. FY 2022-23 to FY 2026-27, as well as in the subsequent EC cycle, with 
minimum cost to the beneficiary. In case of non-compliance, a penalty of ₹1,000 per MT is applicable 
on unutilized ash. 
Accordingly, NTPC Darlipali is continuously exploring suitable nearby avenues for ash utilization so 
as to minimize transportation expenditure and facilitate achievement of the mandatory 100% ash 
utilization target. 
The proposed low-lying area within the airport premises of AAI is one of the nearest (30Kms) 
potential avenues available for utilization of ash generated at NTPC Darlipali. Utilization of this 
avenue would facilitate environmentally compliant ash utilization while reducing the transportation 
distance and associated logistics expenditure. The proposed expenditure is therefore primarily 
associated with the transportation, handling and filling/disposal of ash and is intended to facilitate 
compliant and sustainable utilization of the ash generated by the station. The expenditure incurred 
in low lying area avenue shall be reimbursed on case-to-case basis by CERC. 
 
4.Though there is no financial implication for AAI, Only seeking a PBG and Additonal BG is not 
sufficient for signing an MOU with NTPC,as this may have a very serious future impact on AAI and 
also may have huge financial implications in future for rectification. What will be the validity of PBG 
and Additonal BG, i.e only for two year or beyond, when the proposal will have long future 
implications. Further, w.r.t mail Dt.27.02.2026 from NTPC, when the MOU will be between AAI and 
NTPC, how the BG from a contractor agency of NTPC to be accepted by AAI. 
NTPC Reply: Utilization of ash in low-lying areas is an approved avenue under the MoEF&CC 
Notification dated 31.12.2021, subject to compliance with the applicable statutory and environmental 
requirements. 
Before commencement of the work, the possible technical and environmental impacts associated 
with ash filling may be assessed through a suitable specialized/premier institute under the MOU. 
The findings and recommendations of the study may be shared with AAI and incorporated as 
appropriate in the implementation framework/contract conditions. 
Considering the large low-lying area available within the airport premises, it is proposed that, on a 
trial basis, a suitable non-critical lowest portion of approximately 100–200 acres may initially be 
considered for ash filling, subject to the concurrence of AAI and compliance with all applicable 
requirements. The outcome of the trial phase may be reviewed before considering further expansion 
of the activity. 
Regarding the BG, the BG shall be furnished by the NTPC-appointed contractor in favour of NTPC, 
and NTPC shall incorporate suitable contractual provisions to safeguard the obligations associated 
with the work. The relevant provisions may also be suitably incorporated in the MoU between AAI 
and NTPC. The proposed validity of the BG/Additional BG may be kept for the two-year MoU period, 
with suitable provisions for extension/renewal wherever required based on the actual progress, 
obligations and recommendations of the technical study. 
 
The detailed modalities regarding the nature, quantum, validity and enforceability of the 
BG/Additional BG may be mutually finalized by AAI and NTPC before execution of the MoU. 
 
The above is submitted for kind perusal and further necessary consideration at the earliest. 