NTECL Tender Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6135(R) 
 
GePNIC Tender ID: 2026_NTECL_289586_1 
 
 
SECTION – I 
 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Station 
NOTICE INVITING TENDER (NIT) 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
 
1. NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited (NTECL), a JV of NTPC Ltd. & TANGEDCO 
invites online bids for its 2 X 500 MW + 1 X 500 MW  Thermal Power Project at Vellivoyal 
Chavadi Post, Ponneri Taluk, Thiruvallur Distt., Chennai, Tamilnadu from eligible bidders for 
the following package . 
 
Description of work 
Tender Fee / Cost 
of bidding 
documents 
Bid Security / 
EMD Contract Period 
BIENNIAL MAINTENANCE 
CONTRACT FOR ASH 
DYKE AT NTECL-VALLUR  
 
NIL 
Rs.5,00,000/- 
(Rupees Five 
Lakhs only) 
24 (Twenty Four) 
Months with a 
provision of 
extension for 3 
months 
 
2. BRIEF SCOPE OF WORK: 
The scope of the subject package “BIENNIAL MAINTENANCE CONTRACT FOR ASH 
DYKE AT NTECL-VALLUR  
 
3. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS (QR):  
The bidder who wishes to participate in the bidding shall meet the Qualifying Requirements 
stipulated here under: 
 
A The bidder in the preceding seven (07) years prior to the date of techno – commercial bid 
opening should have executed Civil Construction and /or Civil Maintenance works in Ash 
dykes or Reservoirs or Dams or Embankments or *Major Civil Construction works, with  
 
i. Single (01) order, of executed value not less than ₹ 1.38 Crores  
(Rupees One Crores Thirty Eight Lakhs) 
OR 
ii. Two (02) orders, each of  executed value not less than ₹ 86 Lakhs 
(Rupees Eighty Six Lakhs) 
OR 
iii. Three (03) orders,  each of executed value not less than ₹ 69 Lakhs 
(Rupees Sixty Nine Lakhs) 
 
Note: The values indicated above are exclusive of taxes. 
Note: *Major civil construction works shall mean Road/Bridge/Building Construction works.  
 
  
Execution of earth work/road works in isolation will not 
beconsidered.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B The average annual turnover (AATO) of the bidder in the preceding three (03) financial 
years as on the date of techno - commercial bid opening, shall not be less than ₹ 1.73 
Crores (Rupees One Crore Seventy Three Lakhs). 
 
Notes:  
i)   Other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. 
NTECL Tender Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6135(R) 
 
GePNIC Tender ID: 2026_NTECL_289586_1 
 
 
ii)  In case where audited results for the last financial year as on the date of techno - 
commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing 
Chartered Accountants shall be considered acceptable. In case, the bidder is not able 
to submit the certificate from Practicing Chartered Accountants certifying its financial 
parameters, the audited results of three consecutive financial years preceding the last 
financial year shall be considered for evaluating the financial parameters.  Further, a 
Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the 
bidding documents stating that the financial results of the Company are under audit as 
on the date of Techno -commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing 
Chartered Accountants certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
  Note: - The work “executed” means that the bidder should have achieved the progress 
specified in the QR even if the total contract is not completed / closed. The same shall 
be supported by documentary evidence issued by concerned authority. 
 
    4. BRIEF DETAILS:  
Type of Bidding Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding 
Pre bid conference Not Applicable 
Document download start / end date As per details published in e – tender portal 
Last Query date (Queries shall be 
entertained up to this date only) 
 
As per details published in e – tender portal 
Last Date and Time for Bid Submission 
(Both Techno-commercial Bid and Price 
Bid) i.e. Envelope - I & II together. 
As per details published in e – tender portal 
Bid  Opening Date & Time   As per details published in e – tender portal 
Benefits to MSE’s 
Not Applicable. (MSE benefits shall not be 
applicable to TRADER/DEALER OF GOODS AND 
ALSO FOR WORKS CONTRACTS as per 
guidelines of NTECL/NTPC.) 
EMD/BID SECURITY As per details  at NIT Clause 1 
Cost of Bidding document  As per details  at NIT Clause 1 
Offers where bidders have attached Documents for EMD payment will be checked. After confirmation 
of receipt of EMD amount / confirmation of BG in case of EMD BG, the bids submitted shall be 
evaluated for meeting the Qualifying Requirements & Technical Requirements. 
Only those bids meeting the Qualifying Requirements and complying with the Technical 
Requirements shall be considered for Price Bid Opening.  
The date of opening of Price Bid shall be intimated separately. 
 
 
OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
1. Detailed specifications, Scope of work, Terms & conditions etc., are given in the 
bidding documents. Bid documents can be downloaded from the website 
https://etenders.gov.in/eprocure/app. 
2. Methodology for registration and submission of bids is available at 
https://etenders.gov.in. 
 
3.   It is deemed that bidder shall accept all the terms and conditions mentioned in the 
tender documents without any deviation. For that the bidders are requested to submit 
NTECL Tender Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6135(R) 
 
GePNIC Tender ID: 2026_NTECL_289586_1 
 
 
the “NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATE”  for fulfillment of technical/commercial 
compliance. NO DEVIATION IS ACCEPTABLE TO NTECL. IF ANY DEVIATION IS 
TAKEN BY THE BIDDER IN THE “NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATE” OR ANY 
WHERE ELSE IN THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDING BOQ, THEIR BID SHALL BE 
SUMMARILY REJECTED. ITB Clause 39 to be referred for the same. 
a) The provisions of Bidding Documents read in Conjunction with 
Amendment(s)/ Clarification(s)/ Addenda/ Errata (if any) are acceptable 
and no deviation has been taken in this regard. 
b) Any deviation to Bidding Documents and its subsequent Amendment(s)/ 
Clarifications(s)/ Addenda/ Errata/ Minutes of Clarification Meeting (if any) 
as mentioned at (a) above found anywhere in Techno Commercial  & 
Price Bid Proposal, implicit or explicit, the same shall not be given effect 
to in evaluation and it will be considered that the bidder complies to all the 
terms and conditions of Bidding Documents without any extra cost to the 
Owner irrespective of any mention to the contrary, anywhere in the bid, 
failing which the Bid Security of the Bidder be forfeited. 
4. Any Clarification related to the scope, terms & conditions of contract shall be sought 
under Clarification tab of the on-line bid, latest by the query date as mentioned in the 
documents. Clarifications received after the specified date from the agencies will not 
be entertained. NTECL shall respond to any request for clarification or modification 
of the bidding documents that it receives within the time line specified. 
NTECL shall post the Clarifications under Clarification/Corrigendum tab at e-tender 
website. Bidders can view these clarifications. Bidders are advised to regularly 
check under Clarification/Corrigendum tab regarding posting of clarification, if any. 
 
Bidders must check the Clarifications issued before submission of Bid. Should 
NTECL deem it necessary to amend the Bidding Document as a result of a 
clarification, it shall do so and upload the amendments in the tender on the e-tender 
portal. After this stage, no deviation is acceptable to NTECL.  
 
5. The prospective bidders are invited to submit their Bid comprising of Techno - 
Commercial Bid and Price Bid for the subject package, in line with the provision of 
the bidding documents.  
  
6. The cost on account of preparation and submission of Bid, negotiations, discussions 
etc., as may be incurred by the Bidder in the process, are not reimbursable by the 
owner, and the owner will in no case be responsible or liable for these costs, 
regardless of the conduct or outcome of the bidding process. 
 
7. Transfer of Bidding Documents downloaded by one intending Bidder to another is 
not permissible. 
 
8. The Owner (NTECL) reserves the right to accept or reject any bid, and to annul the 
bidding process and reject all bids at any time prior to award of contract, without 
thereby incurring liability to the affected Bidder or bidders or any obligation to inform 
the affected Bidder or bidders of the grounds for the Owner’s action. Decision of 
Owner will be final and binding in this regard. 
9. NTECL reserves the right to amend/alter/add/delete any provision of this 
document. 
10. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the 
Bidding Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered 
with the Competent Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. However, the 
said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
NTECL Tender Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6135(R) 
 
GePNIC Tender ID: 2026_NTECL_289586_1 
 
 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended 
lines of credit or in which the Government of India is engaged in development 
projects. 
11. “Any Certificate(s) / Financial Statement(s) / Audited Balance Sheet and P&L 
Account (wherever applicable) undertaken/ signed by a Member of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI), which Bidders submit in support of compliance 
to Qualifying Requirements (QR), will carry Unique Document Identification Number 
(UDIN) generated in line with the Gazette Notification of Council of Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (ICAI) 
12. Bid Submission:  
The Bidders will submit their bid online on the e-tender portal in the following manner 
after examining the documents/conditions etc.: 
 
A. ENVELOPE: I    (Techno - Commercial Bid)  
 
Documents to be submitted Online (i.e. duly signed, stamped and scanned copy) as 
detailed in the Instructions to Bidders (Section -II of Tender Documents) shall be 
uploaded in the Pre -Qual/Technical Cover/Envelope of the e -tender portal. Following 
documents shall necessarily be uploaded in the Pre-Qual/Technical Cover/Envelope 
along with other documents as stipulated in the Tender documents: 
a. Up to date copy of Profit & Loss Account and Balance Sheet of last three 
financial years duly audited by Chartered Accountant. In cases where audited results 
for the last financial year as on the date of techno commercial bid opening are not 
available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acc eptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate from 
practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results 
of three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be 
considered for eval uating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be 
required from the CEO/CFO as per the format enclosed in the bidding document 
stating that the Financial Results of the company are under audit as on the date of 
Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certificate from the practicing Chartered 
Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
b. Copies of Work Orders / Award Letters covering awarded value, detailed scope of 
work / terms and conditions / bill of quantities along with proof of execution such as 
completion certificate clearly showing the value of work executed during the 
period of contract, Bill Copy, Final Deviation Copy etc.  in support of above 
Qualifying requirements. The bidder shall also provide the reference list of the 
organizations with contact address and phone numbers. 
 
c. Copy of Permanent Account Number (PAN) issued by Income Tax authorities. 
 
d. Copy of GSTIN Number / Provisional registration number issued by concerned 
authorities. 
 
e. Copy of PF Registration with Regional Provident Fund Commissioner. (RPFC) 
 
f. Employees State Insurance Code (ESI Code) as having registered with ESI 
authorities. If the same is not available, then the bidder should register with concerned 
authorities before the commencement of contract. 
 
g. Relevant Documents to meet Qualifying Requirements (QR) of the subject tender.  
NTECL Tender Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6135(R) 
 
GePNIC Tender ID: 2026_NTECL_289586_1 
 
 
 
h. Relevant Documents to meet Technical Requirements (QR) of the subject tender. 
 
i. Authorization / Power of attorney on the person signing the bid. 
 
j. A complete set of tender documents, its amendments/addendum and 
clarifications, if any, signed and stamped by the authorized signatory. 
 
B. ENVELOPE: II   (PRICE BID)  
 
Documents to be submitted Online (i.e. duly signed, stamp and scanned copy) as 
follows: 
  
 Upload the following in Finance Cover/Envelope on the portal. 
 
 1) Price Schedule-Schedule of Items/Bill of Quantity as per Section-II. 
 2) BOQ in Excel Format 
 
C. GTE conditions: 
i. Bidders are required to certify their full compliance to all the provisions of 
Bidding Documents and its subsequent Amendment(s) / Clarification(s) / 
Addenda /Errata, if any, issued by the Employer by accepting the GTE 
Condition on the e-tender portal 
 
13. Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable bid security in a separate sealed 
envelope shall be rejected by the employer as being non-responsive and shall not 
be opened. 
Note:    In case, BG is submitted in lieu of EMD, then the BG should be on Non -Judicial 
stamp paper/e -stamp paper of appropriate value as per Stamp Act prevailing in the 
state(s) where the BG is submitted or is to be acted upon or the rate prevailing in St ate 
where the BG is executed, whichever is higher. The Stamp Paper/e-stamp paper shall be 
purchased in the name of Bidder/Bank issuing the guarantee. Please refer Annexure C of 
Section VII for more details.              
 
14. NTECL reserves the right to reject BGs not confirming to the stipulations of the Tender. 
 
15. Pre Bid conference: Not applicable 
 
16. The laws applicable to the contract shall be the law in force in India. The courts of Chennai 
alone shall have the exclusive jurisdiction in all matters arising under the contract. 
 
17. Address for Communication:  
 
Sr. Manager/AGM (C&M) 
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited 
Vallur Thermal Power Project,  
Kuruvimedu Village, Ponneri  Taluk ,  
Vellivayal Chavadi  Post  ,  
Thiruvallur District, Chennai - 600103. 
 
NTECL Tender Enquiry No. NTECL/C&M/CS-6135(R) 
 
GePNIC Tender ID: 2026_NTECL_289586_1 
 
 
Contact Persons:  
 
Mr. Jaideep,  
DGM (C&M),  
Email: jaideep@ntpc.co.in 
Telephone No: 04427926507 
 
 
 