Invitation for Bids (IFB)                      Page 3 of 179  
NTPC LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
 
PROJECT CC&M, NOIDA 
 
INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) 
FOR 
Procurement of 50MVA 220KV/11.5KV Power Transformer for CO2-ESS system at NTPC 
Kudgi  
 
(Domestic Competitive Bidding) 
IFB No.:  2026_NTPC_111561_1    
 
Bidding Document No.: 9900328076 
1. NTPC invites online bids on Single Stage Two Envelope Bidding Basis for aforesaid Package, 
as per the Scope of Work mentioned hereinafter.  
 
2. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be downloaded by Bidder from the website 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in. The tender is invited under e-tendering process. 
 
3. This NIT is published on Open tender basis.  
4. SCOPE OF WORK 
The detailed scope of work shall be as per scope defined in the Vol-III,Technical Specification & 
SOW of Bidding Document No. As specified above. 
 
5. NTPC intends to finance the subject package through a mix of debt and equity. 
 
6. Detailed specification, scope of work and terms & conditions are given in the bidding documents, 
which are available at Government e-procurement portal of NIC (GePNIC) at website- 
https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/ and as per the following schedule:: 
 
Issuance of IFB  As per GEPNIC Bid 
Last date for receipt of queries from 
bidders (if any) 
The pre-bid queries shall be received 
through GEPNIC representation tab only till 
the date the representation window is 
open. 
Bid receipt date & time As per GEPNIC Bid 
Date & Time for opening of Bid. As per GEPNIC Bid 
Cost of Bidding Documents in INR NIL  
Bid Security Rs. 10,00,000.00 
            
ANY BID NOT ACCOMPANIED BY AN ACCEPTABLE BID SECURITY SHALL BE 
REJECTED BY THE EMPLOYER AS BEING NON-RESPONSIVE. 
Invitation for Bids (IFB)                      Page 4 of 179  
 
IN CASE THE BID SECURITY IS DEPOSITED BY THE BIDDER IN THE FORM OF E-
BG/THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT), BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE COPY 
OF E-BG/PROOF OF EPAYMENT OF BID SECURITY IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
IN CASE THE BID SECURITY (OTHER THAN BG) IS DEPOSITED BY THE BIDDER IN 
PHYSICAL FORM, BIDDER TO SUBMIT THE ORIGINAL INSTRUMENT IN SEPARATE 
SEALED ENVELOPE AND A COPY OF THE SAME IN THE E-TENDERING PORTAL. 
ALL BANK GUARANTEES SHALL BE SUBMITTED IN THE FORM OF E-BG THROUGH 
NESL PLATFORM AND NO PHYSICAL BGs SHALL BE ACCEPTED. 
BID SECURITY AMOUNT UP TO RS. 1,00,000/- (RUPEES ONE LACS ONLY) MUST BE 
SUBMITTED THROUGH ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT) ONLY. 
 
FOR TENDERS ON GePNIC PORTAL, ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER (EFT) WILL BE 
MADE AT GePNIC portal (https://eprocurentpc.nic.in/nicgep/app ) only. 
 
Bidder is advised to visit the GePNIC (e-tender) portal of NTPC for updated bidding schedule 
of the Tender.  
 
It is to be noted that “No Queries from Bidders, whatsoever, shall be entertained by the 
Employer beyond the last date of receipt of Queries/ Pre-Bid Conference (if applicable) as 
specified at the tender portal”. 
 
7. Qualifying Requirements: 
 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in section ITB (Instruction to Bidder), the bidder shall also 
meet the criteria specified below at 1.1.0 or 1.2.0 (as applicable), and 2.1.0 and/or 2.2.0 (as applicable): 
  
1.0 Technical Criteria: 
 
1.1.0 Route-1 
Bidder should have designed, manufactured and supplied at least two (02) nos. (one each at two 
different installations) of 220 KV or above class Transformers of at least 31.5 MVA capacity (either 
three phase transformers as a single unit or single-phase transformer) which should be in successful 
operation for at least two (02) years prior to the date of techno-commercial bid opening. 
 
1.2.0 Route-2 
i) Bidder should have designed, manufactured, installed/supervised installation and commissioned 
/supervised commissioning of at least two (02) nos. (one each at two different installations) of 132KV 
or above class Transformers of at least 31.5 MVA capacity (either three phase transformer as a single 
unit or single phase transformer) which should be in successful operation for at least 02 years prior to 
the date of techno-commercial bid opening and have designed, manufactured ,supplied and 
commissioned at least 1 no. 220kV class transformer. 
 
ii) The Bidder shall furnish additional performance guarantee for an amount of 3% of  contract price. 
This performance guarantee shall be in addition to Contract Performance Guarantee to be submitted 
by the Bidder. 
 
Notes for 1.1.0: 
1. Two different installations means two different project sites or two different contracts. 
 
2.1 The average annual turnover (AATO) of the Bidder on standalone basis, in the preceding three 
(3) financial years as on the date of Techno-commercial bid opening should not be less than INR 
Invitation for Bids (IFB)                      Page 5 of 179  
5.92 Crore (Indian Rupees Five Crore Ninety-Two Lakh only)  or in equivalent foreign 
currency.   
In case the Bidder does not satisfy the average annual turnover criteria, stipulated above on its 
own, its Holding Company would be required to meet the stipulated turnover requirements as 
above, provided that the Net Worth of such Holding Company as on the last day of the preceding 
financial year is at least equal to or more than the paid-up share capital of the Holding Company. 
In such an event, the Bidder would be required to furnish along with its Techno-Commercial bid, 
a Letter of Undertaking from the Holding Company, supported by the Holding Company’s Board 
Resolution, as per the format enclosed in the bid documents, pledging unconditional and 
irrevocable financial support for the execution of the Contract by the Bidder in case of award. 
 
 
2.2 In case the bidder is not able to furnish its audited financial statements on standalone entity 
basis, the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder can be considered 
acceptable provided the bidder further furnishes the following documents for substantiation of its 
qualification.  
 Copies of the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements of the bidder along with copies 
of the Audited consolidated financial statements of its Holding Company. 
 A Certificate from the CEO/CFO of the Holding Company, as per the format enclosed in 
the bidding documents, stating that the unaudited unconsolidated financial statements form 
part of the Consolidated Annual Report of the company. 
 
2.3 In cases where audited results for the last preceding financial year as on the date of Techno-
Commercial bid opening are not available, the financial results certified by a practicing Chartered 
Accountant shall be considered acceptable. In case, Bidder is not able to submit the Certificate 
from practicing Chartered Accountant certifying its financial parameters, the audited results of 
three consecutive financial years preceding the last financial year shall be considered for 
evaluating the financial parameters. Further, a Certificate would be required from the CEO/CFO 
as per the format enclosed in the bidding documents stating that the financial results of the 
Company are under audit as on the date of Techno-Commercial bid opening and the Certificate 
from the practicing Chartered Accountant certifying the financial parameters is not available. 
 
Notes for 2.0:  
 
(i) Annual turnover shall mean Revenue from Operations of standalone Financial Statements of the 
Bidder and other income shall not be considered for arriving at annual turnover. While working 
out annual turnover of a bidder for the purpose of QR during bid evaluation, Taxes & Duties 
separately indicated (if any), in the Profit & Loss account shall not be considered. 
 
(ii) For annual Turnover indicated in foreign currency, exchange rate as on seven (7) days prior to 
the Techno-Commercial bid opening shall be used. 
 
(iii) “Holding Company” and “Subsidiary Company” shall have the meaning ascribed to them as per 
Companies Act 2013, as amended from time to time.   
 
(iv) If a bidder is not required to get its accounts audited under section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 
1961, the financial statements duly certified by a practicing Chartered Accountant shall be 
considered acceptable along with a certificate from chartered Accountant that bidder is not liable 
for audit under section 44AB. 
 
(v) In case a bidder meets the technical QR but could not furnish his / their audited financial 
statement of last three financial years for evaluating the average Annual turnover, due to the 
incorporation / formation of the bidder, within a period of less than 3 years from the original 
Invitation for Bids (IFB)                      Page 6 of 179  
scheduled date of tender opening, then, such bidder shall also be considered and the Average 
annual turnover of such bidder shall be arrived at as below:   
 
a. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last financial year only, then 
such bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the Turnover of the 
last financial year by 1.5. 
 
b. If such bidder furnishes audited financial statements for the last two financial years only, 
then the bidder's average Annual turnover shall be arrived at by dividing the sum of Turnover 
of last two financial years by 2.5.  
(vi) (a) In case of a Company, “Net Worth” means the sum total of the paid-up share capital and free 
reserves. “Free reserves” means all reserves credited out of the profits and share premium 
account but does not include reserves credited out of the revaluation of the assets, write back of 
depreciation provision and amalgamation. Further any debit balance of Profit and Loss account 
and miscellaneous expenses to the extent not adjusted or written off, if any, shall be reduced from 
reserves and surplus. 
 
(b) In case of sole proprietorship/partnership,” Net Worth” means the aggregate of the balances in 
the Capital Account and the Current Account, where the Current Account is maintained to record 
regular transactions such as drawings, share of profit, interest on capital and other owner/partner 
related adjustments. The aggregate of balances should be positive." 
 
Note for Clause 1.0 & 2.0 
 
(i) For the purpose of this tender, any reference to the date of Techno-commercial bid opening 
for qualifying requirements, wherever mentioned in the qualifying requirements, shall be taken 
as the date of Techno-commercial bid opening 
 
8. NTPC reserves the right to reject any or all bids or cancel/withdraw the Invitation for Bids without 
assigning any reason whatsoever and in such case no Bidder / intending Bidder shall have any 
claim arising out of such action. 
 
9. Only Class-I local suppliers are eligible to Bid for specified items in Bidding documents. Bids 
received (if any) for specified item(s) from Class-II Local Supplier / Non Local Supplier shall 
be considered non-responsive and shall not be evaluated in respect of such item(s).  The 
Minimum Local Content for class-I local supplier shall be 60%. 
 
10. Any ‘Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India’, as specified in the Bidding 
Documents, will be eligible to bid in this tender only if bidder is registered with the Competent 
Authority as mentioned in the Bidding Documents. 
 
However, the said requirement of registration will not apply to bidders from those countries (even 
if sharing a land border with India) to which the Government of India has extended lines of credit 
or in which the Government of India is engaged in development projects. 
 
11. Issuance of Bidding Documents to any bidder shall not construe that such Bidder is considered 
to be qualified. 
 
12. NTPC reserves the right to impose additional performance security wherever required, at its 
discretion to safeguard the Company's interests for contract execution. 
13. The Bidder shall be held solely responsible for non-submission of bids on the e-tender portal due 
to any reasons within the due date/ time, The Procuring Entity/NTPC shall not be held 
responsible or liable in any manner for the same.  Bidders shall follow the guidelines/instructions 
Invitation for Bids (IFB)                      Page 7 of 179  
available on the e-tender portal and are advised to submit their bids well before the due date and 
time to avoid any inconvenience or risk of non-submission. 
 
14. This letter along with the Bidding Documents transmitted with it are confidential and intended 
solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. You are requested to 
keep all the information confidential and do not disclose it to any other third party, persons or 
firms. 
 
 Address for communication: 
Shipra Kumari 
 Sr. Manager (CC&M)/AGM (Project CC&M) 
           NTPC Limited 
           Plot A-8A, Sector 24, Noida-201301 
State of U.P. India 
 e-mail: shiprakumari@ntpc.co.in / shrishksingh@ntpc.co.in 
 Tel No. 01204946555/ 01204946535