Page 1 of 12 
 
 
 
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited 
(A subsidiary of BRBCL Ltd. in JV with Indian 
Railways) 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
for 
 
Lifting of Pond Ash “on Free of Cost” and “as is where is” Basis from 
BRBCL, Nabinagar, Aurangabad  
 
October ’2026 to September’2027 
EOI No. AM-BRBCL/Pond Ash/ 2026                       Date: 04.09.2026 
Name of Work: - 
Lifting of Pond Ash ‘ on free of cost’ , and ‘as is where is ’ basis from BRBCL Thermal Power 
Station located at Nabinagar, Aurangabad, Bihar Lifting and Transportation of the ash shall be 
the responsibility of the interested Ash Users. 
BRBCL invites Expression of Interest (EoI) from interested Ash Users for lifting of Pond Ash from 
BRBCL Thermal Power Station for One Year duration. Pond Ash Quantity offered is mentioned in 
‘General Information’ for this EoI along with Contact Details and e-mail addresses. 
How to Apply 
 
Interested Ash Users are requested to submit their requirement(s) in the specified standard 
format to the e-mail addresses as given in ‘General Information’ by 17:00 hrs. of 20.09.2026. 
‘General information’ and ‘Standard format for application’ for Expression of Interest have 
been uploaded on https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/ 
Registered Office: NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi -
110003. www.ntpc.co.in, CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966 
Leading the Power Sector 

Page 2 of 12 
 
 
INVITATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) 
for 
Issue of Pond Ash “on Free of Cost” and “as is where is” basis with 
Transportation by Bidder, from BRBCL. 
Ref No. EOI No. AM-BRBCL/Pond Ash/ 2026 Date: 04.09.2026 
 
 
This expression of interest (EoI) consists of following Parts: - 
 
i. Part 1: General Information. 
 
ii. Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI. 
 
iii. Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
 
iv. Part 4: Terms & Conditions and General Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.B. 
All the above Parts (1 to 4) shall be duly filled in wherever required and signed by authorized 
representative of the bidder, on each page and shall be submitted along with the specified 
documents on or before the last date indicated elsewhere for deeming the request as acceptable. 
Page 3 of 12 
 
 
Part 1: General Information 
General Details about BRBCL: 
BRBCL, located at Nabinagar, Aurangabad, Bihar having a total installed capacity of 1000 MW, 
is engaged in the business of generation and sale of bulk power. 
To utilize the fly ash in gainful and sustainable manner as per the provisions of extant MOEF&CC 
Gazette Notification and promote utilization of fly ash as resource material, BRBCL intends to 
issue some of its Pond Ash “on Free of Cost” and “as is where is” basis, with transportation 
cost being borne by the Bidders. 
Pond Ash is the mixture of both fly ash (collected at the ESP of the boiler) and bottom ash 
(collected at the bottom of the boiler) that are transported together in the form of a slurry and 
deposited into the ash dyke/pond. Due to this mixing and the settling process within the lagoon, 
it contains a combination of both fine and coarse ash particles. Bidders are advised to take the 
sample from BRBCL, to confirm the quality of ash. 
To facilitate the utilization of Pond Ash, BRBCL invites Expressions of Interest, for a period of 01 
(One) year, from its 4 X 250 MW Stage-1 units and Further details regarding this Expression of 
Interest (EoI) are as follow: 
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST: 
BRBCL invites Expression of Interest (EOI) for above, from interested Bidders, for utilization of 
Pond ash in avenues as identified in extant MOEF&CC Notification, in the prescribed formats 
(Part-2 & Part-3). 
Total quantity of pond ash in MT from the Station, available for issue tentatively is as per details 
given hereunder - 
Power Stations / Location Total Quantity 
offered for EoI Period of Supply 
BHARTIYA RAIL BIJLEE COMPANY (a joint 
venture of BRBCL Ltd. & Ministry of 
Railways), located at Nabinagar, 
Aurangabad, Bihar -824303 
 
15 MT 
01 year 
(1st October 2026 to 30th 
September 2027) 
 
How to apply 
Interested Bidders desirous of receiving Pond ash from BRBCL as per the terms and conditions 
of this EoI, may submit their Expression of Interest along with specified documents and duly filled 
in enclosed “Part 2: Format for Submission of Response t o EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and 
Declaration by Bidder” to the E – Mail address LDPATIDAR@NTPC.CO.IN on or before 17:00 
hrs. of 20th September 2026. 
 
Documents to be submitted with duly filled “Part 2 - Format for Submission of Response 
to EOI” and “Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder”: 
1. GST registration as may be applicable 
2. Company registration as may be applicable 
3. Pan Card copy 
4. Power of Attorney for authorized person. 
5. Business details of the participant / applicant as prescribed in Part 2 along with documentary 
proof as applicable. 
Page 4 of 12 
 
 
All documents submitted shall be duly self-certified by the participant as being true and 
authentic. Interest / Offer / Bid is liable to be rejected if documentation is not complete. 
Page 5 of 12 
 
 
Allocation of Pond Ash Quantity: 
Based on the receipt of responses to EoI or on a pro rata basis (if response received more than 
EOI offered Quantity, Pond Ash shall be allocated to various bidders “on Free of Cost” and “as 
is where is” basis, till the available quantity is exhausted. However, collection of Pond Ash from 
BRBCL’s designated issue location and its transportation thereafter shall be entirely in the scope 
of the bidder 
In case the same Bidder gets some allocation against both the Auction Pro cess and this EoI, 
then the Ash quantity allocated against this EoI shall be issued to that Bidder, only after the 
Bidder completes the lifting / drawl of the allocation against the Auction Process 
 
 
Daily allocation of pond ash shall be done as given below: 
1. All successful bidders shall submit a monthly requisition containing a list of their day-wise 
requested quantities for each month. 
2. Lifting Sequence & allocation shall be finalized by  BRBCL depending upon site specific 
conditions. 
3. All allocated bidders (or transportation vendors) shall be expected to follow the above 
schedule and mobilize accordingly. 
4. In case of non-mobilization / inadequate mobilization, BRBCL may, at its discretion, allocate 
such quantity to alternate bidder(s) / avenue(s). Decision of Engineer in Charge (EIC) -
BRBCL shall be final and binding in this regard. 
 
 
Pond Ash shall be issued from the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / Pond(s) or Other Suitable 
Locations as decided by the Engineer in charge (EIC) of the respective BRBCL Station, on ‘as is 
where is’ basis. 
 
Refundable Security Deposit (SD): 
Successful Bidder shall be required to submit Refundable Security Deposit amount along with 
submission of LOA / LOI acceptance after Evaluation of submitted requests and Ash Allocation 
Process, at the rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000. This SD will be kept for 
ensuring commitment of the Successful Bidder(s) for lifting the allocated Ash. An amount at the 
rate of Rs. 1.00 / MT of un-lifted quantity will be forfeited. 
This Security Deposit will be refundable after adjustment of amount to be recovered, if any. This 
adjusted SD amount will be refunded within 90 days of end of the contract period or of lifting of 
entire allocated quantity, whichever is earlier. 
Page 6 of 12 
 
 
Part 2: Format for Submission of Response to EOI 
(On official letter head of the Bidder) 
(To be submitted by the Bidder along with specified documents) 
 
EOI for Issue of Pond Ash from Nabinagar Thermal Power Station (BRBCL). 
 
Sl. No. Description Details 
1 Name of the Bidder  
 
2. Status (Company / Individual / Partnership 
firm) 
 
2.1 GST No, as may be applicable  
2.2 PAN No.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Nature of Business:  
Name of the Product / Service  
Production / Service Capacity per Annum  
Actual Production / Service previous 
Financial Year 
 
Location and Address of Production / Service 
Facility 
 
Whether capable of handling Pond Ash in an 
environmentally friendly way as per extant 
regulation / law (Yes / No) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Registered Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Page 7 of 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
Communication Address 
 
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
5 GSTIN No. / UIN No. 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
Pond Ash quantity sought against EoI (both in 
Figures and Words): 
 
Figures: 
 
 
Words: 
 
 
 
7 
Whether allocated Ash in Last Pond Ash Auction 
Process from same station (Yes/No). 
 
If Yes, 
Quantity allocated (in MT) 
 
Rate Quoted Rs. per MT  
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Address of the location where Bidder proposes 
to transport pond ash if issued. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
Avenue(s) as listed in extant MoEF&CC`s 
Gazette Notification in which the bidder 
proposes to utilize the Pond Ash, if issued. 
SN Avenue Name Quantity Required 
1.   
2.   
3.   
4.   
Total  
Page 8 of 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Details of the Person authorized to sign all documents including correspondence, etc. 
Name of the Authorized Person  
Designation  
Telephone No.  
Mobile No.  
Email Id  
 
11 
 
Any other relevant information 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of   
 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
 
 
Signature: 
(Authorized Representative) 
Name: 
Designation: 
Page 9 of 12 
 
 
Part 3: Undertaking and Declaration by Bidder. 
(To be executed on a non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value) 
(To be notarized before a notary public) 
UNDERTAKING 
I / We   (Name of the firm / 
individual) hereby certify that I / we have fully read and thoroughly understood the EoI 
requirements and accept all terms and conditions of the EoI including those contained 
in all corrigendum/addendum issued, if any. My / Our offer is in conformity with all the 
terms and conditions of the EoI including all corrigendum/addendum, if any. In the 
event of allocation of ash to me / us, the complete EoI document shall be considered 
as part and parcel of the LOA / LOI for constitution of Contract Agreement and also as 
and wherever applicable and required by TPP. 
It is hereby confirmed that, I am / we are neither blacklisted / barred by Government / 
Semi – Government / Quasi - Government organization / PSU or Govt. Corporation, 
nor have been convicted of violating applicable law. 
In case of ash quantity allocated to me / us: 
I / We agree to abide by the directions of the EIC (Engineer In Charge) with regard to 
procedures for collection of the Ash including Plant entry and exit, Weighment,  
Sequence of Loading, Discipline to be maintained while inside the Plant, Mobilization 
of adequate number of bulkers / covered trucks / suitable transportation arrangement 
conducive to environment friendly handling and transport etc. I / We agree to carry out 
the above as per instructions of, and to the full satisfaction of the EIC. 
I / We agree to comply with all applicable statutory regulations including those 
regarding safety, environment, sustainability, road / rail transport etc. I / We shall fulfill 
all applicable statutory requirements for, and in connection with the execution of the 
contract. 
I / We agree to cooperate with the EIC and with the other agencies working in the area 
as directed by EIC with the objective of smooth and safe execution of the  collection / 
lifting and utilization of Pond Ash. 
I / We agree to submit indemnity bond indemnifying NTPC Ltd and its JVs / 
Subsidiaries from any liability, whatsoever, which may arise due to violation / Non – 
compliance of any applicable norms / rules / regulations/ Guidelines / laws during the 
course of execution and  for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or 
commission by me / us or my / our representatives / agents. 
I / We hereby undertake to utilize the ash issued by TPP for only Ash Utiliz ation 
Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. I/We also agree to submit on 
Half Yearly basis, an affidavit, on “Actual Utilization” of the issued ash for the purposes 
/ Avenues as identified in extant MOEF & CC Notification. 
I / We shall have no objection to the forfeiture of security deposit amount, in case I / 
we fail to execute the contract faithfully and the contract is terminated as per contract 
conditions mentioned in LOA /LOI. 
I / We hereby also declare that all the particulars furn ished by us in this EoI are true 
and authentic to the best of my/our knowledge and I / we understand and accept that 
Page 10 of 12 
 
 
if at any stage, the information furnished is found to be incorrect or false, I am / we are 
liable for disqualification from this EoI and also  liable for any other penal action that 
may arise due to the above. 
DECLARATION 
I / We understand that: 
1. This EoI by BRBCL is not a commitment for Pond Ash tie-up/ agreement. 
2. I / We shall be bearing all costs associated with the preparation and submission of 
the EoI. BRBCL will, in no case, be responsible or liable for these costs, regardless of 
the conduct or outcome of the assessment / evaluation process. 
3. Arrangement with Railways, Freight charges payable to Railways, haulage charges 
and other charges as applicable in case of transportation by rail in Environment friendly 
manner, will be in my / our scope. While I / we understand that the Station may at its 
discretion, consider part / full facilitation for lifting of Pond Ash thru rail – mode / road 
cum rail mode, subject to feasibility and cost economics, I / we also understand that I 
/We shall have no claim whatsoever, in this regard. 
4. Allocation will be done “on Free of Cost” and “as is where is” basis, to the parties 
who have submitted all requisite documents, complete in all respect within the 
stipulated time of submission of interest. Receipt of request will be treated as received 
on receipt of all specified documents only. 
5. Refundable Security Deposit: I / We shall be required to submit a Refundable 
Security Deposit amount at the rate of Re 1.00 / MT subject to minimum of Rs. 10,000, 
along with submission of LOA / LOI acceptance. This Security Deposit will be 
refundable as per the conditions of LOA / LOI. In case of non -receipt of LOA / LOI 
acceptance along with requisite security deposit and other specified documents 
required by the respective station within stipulated time, TPP reserves the right to 
cancel the Pond Ash allocation to me / us. 
6. (Applicable for parties allocated Pond Ash through auction process also from 
same Station) 
I / We have been allocated ash through auction process also from same station. I / We 
understand that if additional quantity of Ash is allocated to me / us on free of cost basis 
through this EoI, it shall be mandatory on my / our part to collect all the Ash quantity 
allocated through Auction process, then only quantity allocated against this EoI will be 
issued to me / us for lifting. 
Thanking you, 
(Signature of authorized person) 
 
Date ……./ ……../ ………. Name ……………………………… 
……………………………………… 
Place: ……………………. Designation: ………………………. 
...................………………………… 
Name of the Company: …….……. 
…………………………………....…. 
Address: ……………………………. 
…………………………………….…. 
Company Seal: …..………………… 
………….…………………………….. 
 
 
Part 4: Terms and Conditions and General Guidelines: 
1. Pond Ash shall be issued from the designated area of Ash Dyke(s) / Pond(s) or other 
location as decided by EIC to the Successful Bidders (or  their authorized 
representatives as may be agreed to in writing by the EIC), considering Operational 
and Safety issues of Ash dyke. 
2. Bidders shall make themselves aware of the various extant Rules, Procedures, Safety 
norms, Environmental and Sustainability Guidelines etc and carry out their activities in 
full compliance with the same. 
3. No person / agency shall be allowed to lift ash without due permission from TPP. 
4. General facilitating measures for lifting of Ash viz. Common Approach / ramp, general 
area fugitive dust suppression, weighment of Ash etc shall be in the scope of BRBCL. 
However, job specific facilitation viz. approach 
/ Ramp to specific allocated area and local fugitive dust suppression shall be in the 
scope of the recipient agency. 
5. Bidders eligible for collecting Pond ash shall apply for permission for the closed  / 
covered Trucks / other suitable transportation medium that they propose to deploy and 
submit the same to EIC along with specified documents  like registration, license, 
insurance etc, who shall arrange to verify the same and issue permission as per 
prevailing procedure adopted at the Station. 
6. Depending upon operational convenience, safety, etc. EIC can schedule or reschedule 
the lifting of ash from Designated storage area by different agencies, which shall be 
binding upon the Successful Bidders. Successful Bidders shall start collecting the Ash 
as per their respective allocation as per the schedule intimated by the EIC. 
7. T&Ps, excavation, loading and transportation of Ash shall be in the  Scope of the 
recipient(s). 
8. Statutory / regulatory compliances shall be binding upon all the Bidders and verifiable 
by TPP. 
9. Non – compliance shall attract penal actions ranging from fine to termination of 
contract / agreement / issue of Pond Ash as decided by EIC 
10. Transportation of Ash shall be in the Scope of the Successful Bidder(s). 
11. Road Permits, Operator / Driver Licenses, Insurance etc. for the deployed Vehicles 
shall be submitted at the time of start of work (and also  when new and / or additional 
vehicles are deployed) and thereafter as  and when demanded by the EIC for 
verification. The vehicles shall be in fit condition for safe operation. 
12. Successful Bidders shall submit affidavit on Non – judicial stamp paper of  requisite 
value, certifying the complete Utilization of issued Pond Ash, in adherence with the 
provisions of the extant Notification and other applicable  statutory regulations. This 
affidavit, in prescribed format, shall be submitted on Half Yearly basis to the EIC. 
13. In case of any liability on TPP, in any manner that arises due to non -compliance of 
any Environmental and Transportation Norms, Rules, Guidelines and Statutory 
provisions by the successful Bidder or its representative / agent, during the course of 
execution and for future obligations (if any) by way of omission or commission, the 
Successful Bidder shall keep TPP effectively indemnified of any such liability. An  
indemnity bond shall be submitted before start of lifting of Ash. 
 
14. NTPC reserves its right to take appropriate action as deemed fit, in case information / 
details provided are found false even at a later date.  
 
 
 